Splash Pte Ltd (“Splash”) conducts adventure boat rides around the coast of Singapore.
Customers sign up for a one-hour ride in a speedboat, which usually involves sharp turns and
wave-jumping at high speeds. Passengers face various risks: collision with each other or with the
interior of the boat, heavy sprays of water and falling overboard. For these reasons, the standard
practice is for the company to provide a life jacket and full-face helmet for each passenger; both
are to be worn at all times.
On this fateful day, the speedboat carries Captain Ahab and three passengers: Vladimir, Angela
and Boris. Vladimir recently arrived in Singapore from Russia and is subject to compulsory
quarantine. Suffering from severe “cabin fever”, he sneaks out of the hotel to join the ride for
some fresh air. This constitutes an offence, punishable by a fine of up to SGD 20,000 and/or
imprisonment for a term of up to 6 months. He, of course, discloses none of this to Splash or
Captain Ahab.
Captain Ahab forgets to bring sufficient helmets for the ride. She dons one herself and hands the
last available helmet to Boris. Vladimir and Angela put on their life jackets but Boris, who is an
experienced swimmer, refuses to wear his. About twenty minutes into the ride, Captain Ahab has
the vessel racing at full throttle. She is distracted by her phone, capturing an exciting shot for the
company’s Instagram feed. The boat clips a wave at an awkward angle and leaps into the air.
Vladimir is flung into the side of the boat, fracturing his arm, and then tumbles overboard. Boris,
always the hero, leaps into the water to rescue Vladimir. In the process of dragging Vladimir
closer to the boat, Boris yanks too hard on Vladimir’s arm and the fracture worsens into a full
break. Just as Vladimir clambers back onto the boat, tragedy strikes. Boris is swept away by a
large wave and almost drowns. Captain Ahab manages to fish Boris’ inert body out of the water
and resuscitates him. As Boris is regaining consciousness, Captain Ahab takes the opportunity to
steal Boris’ very expensive Rolex dive watch. Worse still, Boris sustains mild brain damage as a
result of nearly drowning.
A few days after the ride, Angela is diagnosed with Covid-19. She caught it from Vladimir. Both
Angela and Vladimir would have worn helmets if they had been provided and this would have
prevented Angela from becoming infected.
Captain Ahab has fled the jurisdiction and so the passengers want to sue Splash. You may assume
that Captain Ahab was an employee of Splash and that she breached her duty of care to the
passengers in failing to provide helmets, and in steering the vessel in the waves.
