In 2000, Bong started a dating application company known as "Dicks". In 2022, Bong reached out to Gong, a successful software developer at Google. In their meeting, Bong said "I assure you if you leave Google, I will give you a higher pay and better clients with Dicks.  There's no point staying at Google anyway since you aren't paid very well."

Gong left and pondered over the offer. A month later, Gong approached his supervisor, Dong, and informed him that he was submitting his resignation. Dong was secretly satisfied with Gong's resignation, as he felt that Gong was not performing very well in recent months. In fact, three months prior to the resignation, a member of Gong's team made a mistake in the software that Google was developing for a client, costing Google millions. While the incident report stated that Gong was responsible for the wrongdoing, the report acknowledged that the mistake ultimately lied on Gong's subordinate for his oversight in a patch.

Subsequently, Gong reached out to Bong to accept his previous offer, where Bong indicated his interest to speak with Gong's prior supervisor about his performance before signing the employment contract. Gong obliged and provided Bong with Dong's contact.

However, things turned sour when Dong told Bong that Gong had costed Google millions in the past months due to his oversight and poor performance. Bong hurriedly told Gong that he would not be proceeding with the employment, and blocked Gong.

Gong was extremely dejected, and went for a walk at a nearby street to clear his mind. During his walk, Joelle, an air-con contractor from France, was fixing an air conditioning unit in a building. Gong had not noticed due to a lack of any signage on the ground floor, and stood directly below the air-con unit as he made a call to more recruiters.

Joelle told Serena, her supervisor, to remain downstairs to guide passers-by away from the street as she noticed Gong speaking on the phone. While Serena was making her way down, Joelle dropped a hammer from the 6th floor. Due to her surprise, Joelle shouted in her native language, French, to tell Gong to move out of the way. Unfortunately, as he did not understand French, Gong instead looked up and was hit directly in the face by the hammer.

Gong is now extremely upset, as he feels that the events had occurred as a result of bad decisions, and wants to take action against the parties. 

Advise Gong on any potential civil action he may undertake against the parties.