David brought Charles, his 80-year old father, for a medical check-up. The
results showed that the latter had heart problems. David then brought Charles to
see Dr Tang, a leading cardiologist attached to the Stamford Medical Group
(SMG). Dr Tang is a consultant with SMG. He gives SMG half of his
professional fees and, in return, is provided with a clinic as well as administrative
and medical support whenever operations needed to be performed.
After some checks, Dr Tang told David that Charles’ arteries were severely
blocked and that a bypass was urgently required. Charles was initially reluctant
to undergo a bypass. David asked about complications and risks surrounding the

operation, to which Dr Tang, not wanting to deter David or Charles from a much-
needed surgery for Charles, replied: ‘There are risks but the chances of success

are good’. David translated the reply into a Chinese dialect (Hokkien) for his
father. Charles felt reassured and agreed to go ahead with the bypass. Dr Tang
also thought that it would not be necessary to give any further details concerning
the operation since Charles is illiterate.
A week later, the bypass was carried out at an operating theatre owned by SMG.
The anaesthetist, Dr Lim, who is employed by SMG, had given the wrong dosage
of anaesthetic to Charles. An hour into the operation, complications arose as
Charles was not properly sedated and the correct dosage of anaesthetic had to be
administered mid-way. As a result, the operation was delayed. Eventually,
despite the best efforts of the operating team, Charles passed away.
David is distraught and wishes to sue Dr Tang and SMG. He is also upset that
Dr Tang did not warn him that the operation mortality rate for a patient of his
father’s age and health condition is about 15%. Advise David.
In his sadness and anger, David sent the following message to his Whatsapp
chatgroup of 30 school friends, saying:
‘I’m devastated by my father’s death! Dr Tang assured me the operation
would be fine and now my dad is gone. What kind of an expert is Dr Tang?!’
One member of the chatgroup, Jim, replied: ‘Must be that Dr Tang, the
cardiologist from SMG?!’
John, another member of the chatgroup, posted David’s message as a news item
on Heart-To-Heart, an online forum administered by a non-profit organisation 
“Heart Truths” for those interested in cardiology, adding the heading – ‘Son
mourns father’s death from heart surgery’.
Dr Tang learns of the posting from a fellow doctor and is furious that he has been
maligned.
As if these troubles were not enough, Dr Tang laments that since a month ago,
each time he goes home for a quick lunch and a power nap, he is disturbed by
the noise from Higher Notes, a music studio. Dr Tang lives in a semi-detached
house where across the road is a row of shophouses. Higher Notes has been
operating in one of the shophouses for 5 years now but, of late, it expanded its
programmes beyond conducting lessons for piano, violin and classical guitar,
and conducts lessons for drums and percussion as well. His wife, who works
from home, is also disturbed by the noise from the drums and percussion
instruments which last till the evening. Dr Tang wonders if he has any legal
redress. Advise Dr Tang of his legal rights and remedies under tort law.