Pan was 18 when he arrived in Singapore 6 months ago. He needed cash to pay the remaining portion of tuition fees for his upcoming course at the university and read an advertisement of a social media company (MediaX) seeking students to filter Internet content in order to ensure compliance with the company's Internet guidelines. MediaX offered good hourly-rated payment for the first 10 hours of work and overtime pay for work exceeding the 10 hours at twice the rate. Workers were required to give a 2-week notice to stop work.

Pan applied for and secured work at MediaX. The hours were long, from 8 am to 11 pm (with a half-hour lunch break) from Monday to Saturday. His job was to filter content from videos, pictures and postings. According to MediaX guidelines, he had to delete postings that contain obscene, violent, lewd, or indecent pictures, videos, words or gestures based on a list of categories. The volume of posting he had to view each day was substantial. It worked out to Pan having to make a decision on a posting every 5 seconds. Pan complained to his fellow workers about dizziness and insomnia after 2 months and this was known to MediaX. Pan was paid handsomely for his work at MediaX.

MediaX also owned an old single-storey factory on its land which it had leased to PrintX. The 10-year lease for the factory will soon expire. It stored heavy equipment for the purpose of printing books and magazines. Peter, an employee of PrintX, was responsible to work the printing equipment. Unknown to MediaX and PrintX, embedded within the walls of the old factory was a type of building material which released tiny particles of invisible dust when the paint started to flake from wear and tear. The invisible dust would probably not have been detected by experts in the construction industry. Peter, who had worked there for close to 8 years, started to suffer from bouts of coughing and dry throat a year ago.

When Peter consulted Dr Dong, the latter informed him that his condition was just a temporary inflammation of the larynx. He was given antibiotics and told to rest his voice-box. Though doctors in Singapore would not be aware of the existence of the dust, a group of doctors in Singapore would, in any event, have required Peter to undergo a lung test to make sure that the passageway to his lungs was clear. A year later, it was discovered, to the surprise of respiratory specialists in Singapore, that Peter had contracted pneumoconiosis from the dust he was exposed to at the workplace.

Adjacent to the side of the factory with a window and separated by a partition fence was a plot of land owned by Proctor. He had built a small house for his family and they had moved in next to the factory two years ago. His wife and daughter Penelope have started to experience fits of coughing and throat irritation. Proctor is worried about their condition and wishes to take legal action.

To signal the company's complete shift from print to Internet media, MediaX engaged Publico (event organisers) to hold a launch with a fireworks display and a costume parade. Guests were invited to dress up in costumes and props resembling media celebrities. The costumes and props were obtained by Publico. MediaX specifically requested Publico's employee, Prakash, to obtain a special luminous make-up for the guests' faces and bodies to improve the authenticity of the performance. Prakash mistakenly used luminous make-up that were flammable when exposed to heat. As it turned out, the heat generated by the fireworks was so intense during the climax of the performance, that it ignited the make-up causing some guests to suffer burns.

A week into classes, Pan continued to experience dizziness and insomnia. His attempts to sleep at night were often disrupted by the images which he had been exposed to at MediaX. Pan visited his ex-colleagues at MediaX and informed them of the adverse effects he was suffering and added: "You should stop work at MediaX immediately before it is too late! Do warn the others too!" Ling heeded Pan's advice and decided to quit on the same day. Subsequently, Pan was diagnosed as having post-traumatic stress disorder.

On an Internet platform administered by MediaX, an anonymous person posted a lewd picture of a notoriously ugly monster (known as Nasty) and remarked that Prim - a prim and proper female user of the social media platform - was "like Nasty's clone!" The post went viral. It was only when Prim highlighted the issue to the MediaX administrator 2 weeks later that the latter removed the posting. By that time, Prim was furious and wanted to sue MediaX. The public relations manager at MediaX explained that the volume of posts had increased considerably in the past months and they have been actively recruiting staff to moderate the content.

Advise the parties on their rights and remedies under Singapore tort law.