Two days ago, the Singapore Science & Technology University (SSTU) celebrated its 25th anniversary by having an Open House on its campus. The activities included "live" experiments, talks, showcasing of research and works of faculty and students, and games and activity booths by student clubs. There was a modest entrance fee of $2 and visitors were given a goodie bag.

A star attraction was the "live" demonstration by Albert (a renowned professor of chemistry), of a new chemical compound he had discovered. Another attraction was the student's club U & the Primates (U&P), brought a primate named Ming Ming to the Open House. Ming Ming was minded by two U&P members, James and John, who volunteered regularly at the zoo and were familiar with Ming Ming and vice-versa.

The Open House turned out to be quite a disaster.

As Albert was doing his "live" experiment and mixing several chemicals in a huge glass container, there was an explosion. As a result, several members of the audience were injured by the glass fragments, including Huckle, who had sneaked into the Open House without buying a ticket.

Ming Ming happened to be walking nearby, and the explosion and its accompanying commotion frightened her, sending her on a rampage, in the course of which she damaged several valuable paintings (owned by Pierre) displayed at a nearby booth before her minders managed to calm her down.

Jamie, a reporter with NNS (News Now Sg), who was covering the Open House, rushed to the scene to find out what was happening. One person she spoke to was David Tan, a scientist from a competitor university. David said:

"Well, this prof was doing a live experiment and mixing several substances when there was an explosion which injured several persons. How irresponsible of the prof and the university to allow such a dangerous experiment to be done in public!"

Another interviewee was Mr Lim, whose daughter was injured in the explosion. Mr Lim said angrily:

"What kind of university is this – conducting experiments without making sure that everything is safe! Who would dare to send his child to such a university?!"

An hour later, the NNS website carried a “Breaking News” report which included the two quotations.

Albert was very troubled by the explosion incident. He was also upset as he had done this experiment successfully several times and believed that the glass container supplied to him by Hourglass Pte Ltd did not comply with his required specifications. In an emergency meeting with his Dean and his Provost that afternoon, he was berated over this fiasco and his attempted explanation fell on deaf ears.

To drown his sorrows, Albert had a drink at the pub that evening. There he met his good friend, Peter, the Provost at Singapore National University (SNU). After hearing Albert’s sorrows, Peter said: “Why don’t you join us? As you know, you are always welcome at SNU.”

The next morning, Albert called Peter to express his interest to join SNU and Peter was delighted. After the conversation, Albert emailed his Dean and his Provost, informing them that he is leaving SSTU in 2 weeks’ time.

Advise on the rights and liabilities (including defences, where relevant) of the various parties under the law of torts.
