Mach One Pte Ltd, a company incorporated in Singapore, has purchased a large plot of land in the western part of Singapore and has converted the plot into a race track for motorcycle racing. Since 2014, the races have taken place every weeknight as well as during weekends from 9 pm to 12 midnight. During race days, various booths which sell food and beverages, motoring paraphernalia and magazines would be set up to cater to the race participants and spectators. A fee of $20 and $10 per entry is charged for each participant and spectator respectively. The director of Mach One, Mr Shoemaker, has arrived from the United Kingdom in 2015 to operate and manage the business at the race track. He is an expert in motorcycling races. Racing has been his one and only passion and career since he left school.

Pritam was selling satay at the Esplanade Food Hub and paying a rental charge of $5000 per month to Marketplace Pte Ltd, the owner and operator of the premises. He is the only satay seller at the Esplanade Food Hub. Foreigners and locals alike crave for his special satay sauce which contained a potent combination of spices and vinegar. Shoemaker approached Pritam in 2015 to set up a food stall selling satay during race days. When Pritam told him that business was brisk at the Esplanade Food Hub, Shoemaker said, “With the fever and excitement in Singapore, my sense is that night motorcycle racing is here to stay. I strongly believe your satay sales will certainly surpass many times the meagre rental you have to pay me. Definitely more than what you earn here. I will just charge you a rental of $3000 per month.” Pritam decided to move his stall to the Mach One race track.

It was reported in the newspapers that Marketplace was “disappointed” that Pritam has decided to move to Mach One. The crowd at Esplanade Food Hub had dwindled considerably in the subsequent few months.

Pearline's son, Paul, was an avid racer. Pearline had often tried to dissuade Paul, who was 18 years old, from participating in motorcycling races due to the risks involved. Pearline was after all an actuarial analyst who assessed risks on a regular basis for an insurance firm. But Paul had a mind of his own. Pearline reluctantly agreed and decided to support him by attending one of his races. During the race, as the motorcyclists were negotiating a bend for the last stretch of the race, Donny suddenly cut into Paul's path resulting in the latter having to swerve immediately to avoid Donny. However, it was too late as Paul lost his balance and his motorcycle skidded away, crashing against the side boards. Pearline did not witness the accident as she had to bring her youngest child to the wash room at that time. However, when she returned to the spectator's stand, she saw on the TV screen, which was projected to the spectators at the race tracks, that her son's legs were trapped under the motorcycle as the race track staff rushed to extricate him. Pearline accompanied Paul to the hospital in an ambulance. It transpired that Paul had to amputate his leg and fix a prosthetic leg. Pearline was later diagnosed with severe depression and had to undergo full therapy for a year.

Pierre Tan and his family resided in a bungalow about 70-80 metres away from the west-gate of the race track. Most of the buildings nearby were factories and warehouses. Pierre had complained to Mach One about the noise and fumes from the race track during races.

During the races, the announcements made through the loudspeakers, the rumble of the motorcycles as they course around the tracks and the fumes from the motorcycles are particularly unnerving for the Tans. Moreover, Pierre Junior, who was only 9 years old, suffered from allergic reactions to the accumulation of fumes emitted during race days.

With regard to Peter’s complaints, Shoemaker responded that Mach One has been given permission by the authorities in charge of the western district to set up and operate the race track. Subsidiary legislation promulgated under the Motorcycling Racing Track Licensing Act authorises the Motorcycle Racing Authority (MRA) to grant business licenses to private entities. Shoemaker also stated quite curtly to Peter, “nobody asked you guys to move here. You moved here knowing full well that this is going to be a race track!”

Mach One had stacked their tyres next to the partition at the east-end of the race track which adjoined a factory owned by Peng Trading, a sole proprietor. During one of the afternoons when there was no race, a few youths entered the race compound, lighted a fire and set the tyres near the partition ablaze. They were seen fleeing from the race track premises when the fire started. Unfortunately, due to the strong winds at that time, the fire spread to Peng Trading’s factory and destroyed its carpentry workshop. As a result, Peng had to abandon three projects to construct wardrobes and other furniture for clients.

One of the youths was identified by an eye-witness as Mark Lim who was the son of the managing director of Marketplace Pte Ltd, Richard Lim. However, when asked by the press, Mark denied he was ever at the race track. Whilst police investigations were ongoing, one of Mark’s schoolmates Danny posted on his personal blog as follows: “Fire at Mach One: there is no smoke without fire, you know. Mark my words!”

When Shoemaker was interviewed by a TV channel, Singapore News Channel, about the fire, he said, “Business is like a race. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. There is no reason to destroy someone’s property just because you cannot persuade your own stall-owners to stay put. He will have to pay for this.” A few days later, Singapore News Channel reported that Mark was not present at the race track and the other youths could not be identified.

After having set up his satay stall at the Mach One race track for four months, Pritam was disappointed that his satay business was only breaking even. Despite the crowds at the race track, they could not be compared to those at the Esplanade Food Hub. He longed to return to Esplanade Food Hub as soon as possible but he found out that the contract with Mach One obliges him to continue business at the races for at least eight more months. When Pritam enquired from Shoemaker as to why the satay sales were not what he had promised, Shoemaker replied brusquely, “you have to do your own calculations, Pritam. Don’t expect me to do them for you!” Pritam also discovered that the other food stalls of a similar size were paying significantly lower rental fees to Mach One.

Advise the various parties of their legal rights and remedies under Singapore tort law.
