Last Halloween, Resorts City Sembawang (“RCS”) ran a special theme throughout the
entire resort that celebrated the spirit (or should I say spirits?) of the season. Part of
this was a huge, unprecedented Haunted House (about the size of a football field) that we
constructed on our resort grounds, in the middle of the amusement park. It was truly a
sight to behold. At every corner of the maze were ghosts, dragons, skeletons, zombies,
jumpscares, what have you. The attraction was only open to teenagers 18 and up, for
obvious reasons. They placed bouncers on site to ensure this.
Unfortunately, a number of people who entered the House were harmed. There are three
archetypal claimants in particular.
First, Tom is 35 year old computer engineer at Macrosoft. He visited the House on 31 Oct
with his then girlfriend Sarah. Internal CCTV footage (hidden in the House, for safety
reasons) show that Tom was really quite unmoved throughout the entire thing. He even
laughed at a few scares. But Sarah was scared out of her wits. Upon leaving the House
Sarah was seen gesturing aggressively at Tom. Tom’s lawyer’s letter states that this was
the reason they broke up. Within a week Tom developed break-up induced grief disorder,
which is a recognised psychiatric injury.
Second, Timmy is a 14 year old kid who stole his sister Maven’s ID to make it through our
bouncers. The House was obviously too much for the kid. On CCTV he was seen darting
from corner to corner. Eventually he was seen hiding in a corner, curled up into a ball,
hands covering his ears, and crying. It was only until three hours later that Maven found
him in that corner and dragged him out. Timmy was apparently diagnosed with PTSD, an
RPI, shortly thereafter.
The third claimant is Maven herself. She is 23. She was very worriedly asking for Timmy
all around the resort. In the House, she looked truly worried. She searched for Timmy for
about one and a half hours, during which some of the scares also caught her completely
off-guard. In her demand letter, she notes that the entire experience was truly traumatising
and blames us for not making it easy for people who get too scared to exit. She also blames RCS for how difficult it was to find Timmy in the maze. Maven allegedly developed an
RPI shortly thereafter as well.
As further background, this is the general holding structure for RCS. The overall parent
is RCS Pte Ltd, which owns the entire property. The amusement park portion is leased to
RCS (Amusement) Pte Ltd (“RCSA”), a fully-owned subsidiary which runs the amusement
park. The Haunted House was a collaboration between RCSA and Safe Houses Pte Ltd,
an external vendor. Under the agreement, RCSA would provide the personnel necessary to
run the attraction. That is, the bouncers, ghosts, zombies, etc, were played by RCS’s own
staff. Meanwhile, Safe Houses provided all the logistical supporting, including the House
itself, the set up, and all safety equipment (such as fire extinguishers). Safe Houses was
also responsible for training RCS’ personnel on how to run the Haunted House, including
on the best ways to scare people.