Forest is Southeast Asia’s leading online shopping destination. It has the hugest selection
of third-party sellers on our platform which includes a few luxury brands that do not appear
on any of our competitor’s websites. They also have their own line of luxury goods,
the “Rafflesia” series, through which we provide custom-made soaps, couture, make-up,
perfumes, food, and many other popular products.
Their main website, forest.biz, receives millions of visits per day from consumers and store
owners alike. As such, it is supported by a veritable infrastructure of computer servers
located in data centres in Singapore, Indonesia, and the U.S. Forest appointed an external
vendor, Safe Servers Pte Ltd (a Singapore company) to maintain the server farm. The
contract states that their “primary and inalienable responsibility is to ensure that forest.biz
is always up and running – 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365.25 days a year”. In parallel,
Forest engaged a huge cybersecurity firm, Black Cat Ltd, to ensure that their servers do
not fall prey to hackers. Black Cat had been advising Safe Servers on cybersecurity best
practices for our servers for a few years.
On 27 June 2020, however, Forest’s website suffered a massive outage for about 48 hours.
Accountants estimate that they lost $25 million in revenue from those two days alone.
They then engaged Descenture, an IT consultancy, to conduct a forensic investigation into
the matter. Their report establishes the following:

1. The outage occurred because more than 80% of Forest’s servers were infected with
a new computer virus that had been detected in January 2020. The virus, known as
Donald-2020, is named after its supposed creator, an infamous hacker.
2. Although SS had provided for the standard 300% redundancy (i.e. for every one
server required there are two backups), because so many servers were infected there
were not enough servers left to support the traffic we were getting that day.
3. It was not clear how Donald-2020 managed to spread so quickly and rampantly
within our server farm. The world’s top cybersecurity experts are still trying to identify exactly how the virus spreads. It defies traditional expectations. Emerging
consensus is that the virus converts itself into electrical signals and cross-infects
computers sharing the same power source. Thus, once a particular server in a data
centre gets infected, within a short time all other servers sharing the same power
source also get infected.
4. However, experts disagree on how the virus works to take down a server. One view
is that a single instance of the virus suffices. After establishing itself in the server’s
memory, it is able to replicate itself so much that it crowds out all of the server’s
resources. Other experts do not believe that the virus is capable of self-replication.
They hold instead that continuous exposure to a virus source is necessary. As more
and more virus copies enters a target server via the shared power source, the server
gets more and more overloaded and eventually fails.
5. What was clear, however, was that Safe Servers was had been egregiously careless
in wiring up the servers. To save costs, they had overloaded their power sockets
significantly. Many servers were sharing power sources with servers used by other
companies with far weaker cybersecurity practices. A number of them do not even
have in place basic, common-sense practices like data masking.
6. By May 2020 it was generally believed in the industry that, because of Donald-2020,

server farms needed to be strictly electrically-distanced. This especially for high-
value servers such as ours. Attempting to infect high-value (and thus high security)

servers by first infecting low-value (and low security) ones is a well-known attack
vector in the hacking circles. Black Cat did not advise Safe Servers on this matter.

7. It was likely that Forest’s servers were exposed to Donald-2020 through these low-
security servers. At the same time, Descenture could not rule out the possibility that

Forest’s servers were also directly compromised by hackers. Thus, there were two
possible and non-mutually exclusive sources of virus exposure.

8. To the extent that the virus was a result of direct hacking, then even if proper distanc-
ing had been practiced, some amount of the virus would still have been spreading

within our server farm. Descenture noted that since Forest’s servers were more se-
cure, the level of virus exposure would have been lower. But since how the virus

operates is yet unclear, they could not definitely say if they would still have suffered
such a major outage.

Forest wishes to pursue a battery of contractual and tortious remedies against both Safe
Servers and Black Cat.
