A new augmented reality mobile game known as “Parks and Trees Go”, or “ParkG” for
short, has taken the world by storm. Gamers are asked to explore various parks and forests
around Singapore and point their cameras at different types of trees. The augmented reality
system then spawns, on the phone, various fruits from out of those trees which can be
harvested for points.
The game’s runaway success has created an epidemic of people walking around parks
with their phone cameras turned on. Typically a ParkG-er would use the phone’s camera
as their effective ‘eyes’ for navigation. The game is massively profitable for its maker,
Elastic Labs. To celebrate one year of the game’s release, Elastic decides to hold a special
event at Sentosa’s Siloso beach. They lease half the beach from the Siloso Beach Company
(“SBC”) and cordon it off. There, they bring and plant a host of fully-grown, exotic local
trees. At the cost of a S$50 ticket, players may enter the limited area from 10am–12pm on
a certain Sunday and harvest special types of fruits made available only there and then.
Yee Sun is an avid ParkG-er with multiple max-leveled accounts that he plays on three
stolen iPhones. He excitedly buys a ticket and shows up before dawn to the event. He
waits for 10am patiently, first in the queue outside the entrance. At the event entrance,
Elastic has set up a prominent sign which reads:
Event Rules
1. Enter the event venue at your own risk. We have brought in special trees
for this event not usually found on the beach. Participants are advised to take
care when navigating the event zone.
2. A specific rule of the event zone is that players should not walk around with
their phones out. Please stop walking and remain stationary while harvesting
from the trees.

The event venue was built to hold 150, but Elastic had sold 500 tickets before closing sales,
counting on people showing up at different times and some no shows. However, by 9am, the queue to enter had at least 250 people, and counting. The long-snaking queue encircled
most of Siloso beach, preventing anyone from otherwise delightful beach activities like
soccer and volley. And while people waited in the hot sun, enterprising vendors from
nearby snack stalls swooped upon the queue to sell devotees over-priced, unhealthy drinks
and tidbits. This was highly profitable for the SBC which ultimately owns all the snack
stalls there. The problem, however, was that the event left the entire beach littered with
food containers and waste. SBC had to spend $10,000 getting a professional cleaning
company to do the cleanup thereafter.
More importantly, when the organisers opened the event gates at 10am, there was a mad
rush of ParkG-ers like Yee Sun, running around the event beach brandishing multiple
phones and using their cameras as eyes. In his frenzy, Yee Sun trips over a durian that had
fallen onto the beach from a tree Elastic had brought in for the event.
As luck would have it, Yee Sun suffered from an old hip injury from a rugby scrum gone
wrong in his younger days. Because of the fall, Yee Sun’s hip is severely fractured. An
ambulance that ParkG catered promptly gets to him and treats him. But the doctors later
tell him that, if not for the old injury, he would not have been injured at all.
To make things worse, Yee Sun’s fall means he was unable to continue harvesting at the
event. His ParkG buddies all got shiny new fruits that they tease him for missing out on.
Indeed, he is now unable to walk much. He cannot play the game he dearly loves. He
suffers withdrawal symptoms and eventually develops an RPI.