Carlos engaged Torts Law Firm LLP (TLF) two years ago to advise on a loan he wanted
to take to purchase his 5th super-car (this time, a $2m white Ferrari Enzo). With TLF’s
help, a loan of $1m was granted by Eagle Bank to finance the purchase. The loan was
for a period of 10 years with monthly instalments payable and an interest rate of 10% per
annum, compounded monthly. The loan was also secured on the car (meaning the Bank
could confiscate the car if the borrower failed to pay up).
Carlos initially wanted to ensure that only his father Leong would be personally liable for
the loan even though the main beneficiary was him. Although this went against standard
banking industry practices and good financial sense, TLF in attempting to do the best for
its client tried to help Carlos negotiate such a term anyway.
Eagle Bank, however, was having none of it. After a long email chain with TLF’s lawyers
decided to send them a version of the contract which contained standard terms making both
Carlos and Leong joint and severally liable for the loan. The Bank’s email was however
worded tactfully to make it seem like they had agreed to the terms. It reads, “Understand
your clients concerns which are very valid, especially given who Carlos’ father is. Please
find attached our proposed terms for your client’s kind signature please.”.
One of TLF’s first-year associates Lim misunderstood this and forwarded the email to the
supervising Partner Chen. Chen in turn happily sends it off to Carlos who promptly signs
the contract digitally.
As you may expect by now, eventually Carlos was unable to service the loan instalments.
Eagle Bank sent a letter of demand to both Carlos and Leong. Leong was furious and
cut off Carlos’ credit cards. Eagle Bank exercised the security and took over the beloved
Ferrari.
However, Carlos’ super-cars have earned him a significant social media following over the
years. His followers are mostly petrol-heads and car enthusiasts like Carlos and engage with him closely on car-related topics. When Eagle Bank confiscated his Ferrari, Carlos
posted this rant on his well-followed Instagram page:

PSA: Torts Law Firm LLP like Traffic Police; Avoid at All Costs

My precious whitey has been confiscated by the bank all because of incompe-
tent lawyers. I asked them to make sure the loan was pinned to Dad’s company

and they told me it can be done so I signed the contract they sent me. Turns
out it wasn’t done at all! Now Dad has temporarily cut off my money as he

always does. But he will relent in a while as usual and then I will pay. Be-
cause it is pegged to me now that’s why the bank can do this. All this trouble

because of the lawyers. Poor whitey! Engaging TLF is like driving a Toyota
Prius, only a Prius will at least eventually get you where you want to be.

Many of his followers commented on the post, expressing their collective disagreement at
TLF. About five minutes after Carlos’ post went live, one of his followers Sebastian wrote,
“TLF is the absolute worst law firm! I paid them to do my car loan too and they completely
messed up the financial terms. I ended up paying monthly compounded instead of annually
compounded interest. TLF really means Too Little Finance knowledge!” Sebastian did not
realise that the firm he had engaged was actually Tan, Lee, and Fern LLP. Carlos liked the
comment shortly after it was posted.