Donald, a local entrepreneur, runs Dump Hotel, which is famous for its weekly barbecues at
which all the cooking is done using hydrochar, a charcoal-like biofuel derived from human waste
generated at the hotel. The hydrochar is manufactured in a biochemical facility located next to
the hotel. Joe is an elderly man who lives in his house across the street from Dump Hotel. As he
suffers from agoraphobia (in his case, a fear of being outdoors or even being exposed to the
outdoors), Joe spends his days and nights in his basement where he writes a daily blog on living
with agoraphobia.
Dump Hotel’s weekly barbecues create significant noise and smoke, causing Joe’s next door
neighbour to complain. However, Joe is not personally affected because he lives in his basement.
Recently, Joe notices a very bad odour in his basement. To manufacture hydrochar, Dump Hotel
stores huge quantities of human waste (which would normally be disposed of as sewage) in a
huge underground tank which feeds the biochemical facility. Some of the waste has leaked into
subterranean tunnels and contaminated the ground within Joe’s property. While it does not pose
a health risk, the contamination kills the plants growing in Joe’s garden. The odour is only
detectable in the basement; it is not detectable anywhere else in the house or outside. As there
is no explanation for what caused the leak and nobody knew about the tunnels, Donald refuses
to take responsibility. He tweets that as the area is zoned for “COMMERCIAL and RESIDENTIAL”
use, nobody should complain about a “LITTLE SMELL”.
The bad smell forces Joe out of the basement and he suffers panic attacks due to his agoraphobia.
His friend, Kamala, visits him regularly to check that he has food in the fridge and an adequate
supply of his medication. During her last visit before going on holiday, she forgets to check his
medical supplies. Joe runs out of his anxiety medication two days after Kamala leaves. When he
realizes he has no more medication, he is suddenly overwhelmed by panic, which triggers a
psychiatric disorder. Kamala returns three days later to find Joe in a neurotic state. She rushes
him to hospital, where he is diagnosed as suffering from a recognized psychiatric disorder.
The emergency psychiatrist, Dr Fauci, is of the view that Joe is at risk of self-harm and
recommends urgent electric shock therapy. Joe’s psychiatric disorder has affected his capacity to
consent. Kamala asks Dr Fauci whether there any risks associated with the therapy. Dr Fauci
informs her that the therapy is safe and might even be able to cure his agoraphobia. Kamala tells
Dr Fauci that Joe’s entire life revolves around his agoraphobia and suggests that he consider
alternative treatments. Dr Fauci proceeds with the treatment believing it to be necessary to
minimize the risk of self-harm and that it would be in Joe’s best interests to be cured of
agoraphobia. The treatment is successful and Joe is also no longer agoraphobic. However, he is
distraught as agoraphobia has been central to his identity all his life. He blames Dr Fauci for
destroying the very essence of his being and for his ensuing emotional distress. He is also upset
with Kamala for forgetting to check on his medicine and causing his psychiatric injury.