In Silicon Valley, fund raises are the delight of everyone. Series A, B, C, mezzanine rounds
are the dream of every tech entrepreneur. Every company and raise is different, but every
fund-raising contract is the same. Typically, lawyers were just copy-pasting “templates”
and charging startups thousands of dollars for “advice”. Hoping to disrupt this lucrative
market, Alex and his wife Wendy (A&W), a programmer-lawyer duo, created a new app
called Ventricle. A&W built and run the app from out of Singapore. On the app, users are
asked a series of questions about their company and what kind of capital they are raising.

Based on how they answer, Ventricle’s algorithm chooses the most relevant contract tem-
plate and populates it with the user’s names and other relevant variables. A&W had paid

about S$50,000 to a top US law firm in Silicon Valley for these templates.
Thereafter, the user can either (a) download the template as it is, completely free, or (b)
pay Ventricle to upgrade to what is called a ‘Vented’ contract. A ‘Vented’ contract is
essentially a contract that is vetted by real lawyers. So far, A&W have signed up 10
partner law firms in Singapore with lawyers who are deeply experienced with fund-raising
contracts. When a user Vents a contract, the system automatically sends the base template
off to a randomly-chosen partner firm. They are expected to give it a human review, though
A&W do not know what exactly happens there. The law firm is also given access to all the
information the user enters on the form. This is done with the user’s express permission.
All partner firms’ logos are prominently displayed on Ventricle’s website, and A&W make
it a point to make sure that Venting users are informed about the exact law firm and partner
their contracts will be reviewed by.
The law firm is free to change anything in the contract they want. After they’re done,
they upload the new version on Ventricle and the app automatically passes that on to the
user. No further checks are performed to the Vented contract at all, and Ventricle’s terms
of use make it clear to users that they “take no responsibility whatsoever for any Vented
contracts”. There are no other material terms.
Although there are several other contract-generation apps in the Singapore market, only
A&W app’s has the option to Vent contracts. Because the entire process is so optimised
and automated, Ventricle charges something along the lines of a 75% discount to what
the average Singapore lawyer charges for the same work. It has therefore been seeing steady growth in its user base in Singapore and around the world. The platform is popular
amongst both startup founders and investors.

Toby is one such founder. Recently she started WeatherGPT, a startup whose main busi-
ness is stated as “harnessing the power of ChatGPT to predict and control the weather”.

Toby had previously started 3 tech startups involving blockchain, AI, etc but none of them

have lasted very long. This time, however, riding the wave of ChatGPT hype, she man-
aged to interest a reputable venture capitalist, Banyan Capital to invest. However, being a

typical stingy Singaporean VC, they ask her to bear the costs of preparing the agreements.
Not knowing any law herself, Toby turns to Ventricle and pays $500 for a Vented contract.
Ventricle provides her a contract Vented by a large Singapore firm, Nadia & Kahn LLP.
However, the contract contained a crucial typo — instead of saying that “Banyan Capital
will invest $100,000 at pre-money valuation of $1m”, which was the informally agreed

deal, the contract stated that “Banyan Capital will invest $100,000 at a post-money valu-
ation of $1m”. The effective result was that Banyan Capital ended up owning 10% of the

company instead of 9% as agreed, despite investing the exact same amount of cash.
Neither party realised this and just signed the agreement. Things only came to light three
months later when Toby was chasing yet another round of fund-raising, and thus had to
double-check WeatherGPT’s share structure. At this point, Banyan and Toby agreed that
they had better engage a proper law firm to sort this out. This was done but the additional
paperwork cost them $30,000. The parties split this cost evenly and started investigating
how the error got into the contract in the first place. They realised that although Toby had
specified on Ventricle that the valuation should be pre-money, the first template Ventricle
generated had already gotten it wrong.
The trouble created by this fiasco also caused Toby several sleepless nights, with the result
that she could not properly follow up on a promising lead she had with a potential investor.