Nihon Gardens (NG) is a local theme park made in the image of imperial Japan during

the Meiji restoration. Our star attraction is a rustic riverway flanked by rows of wonder-
ful cherry blossoms. NG invested significant resources into bringing that experience into

Singapore. The cherry blossom trees are painstakingly imported from Kyoto. Using ad-
vanced climate control techniques (similar to what you might see in the Gardens by the

Bay’s Flower Dome), NG makes these cherry blossoms bloom even in Singapore’s hot
weather. However, they can only manage this from late March to mid-April (when they
are also in full bloom in most of Japan).

Presumably because of the COVID-19 travel restrictions, NG has been seeing record num-
bers of visitors. During cherry blossom season this year, their carpark simply could not

accommodate the sheer numbers. The carpark is designed to accommodate up to 5% of

the maximum capacity of the park itself. The maximum capacity of the park is 5000 visi-
tors at any one time, but because of the safe distancing rules, NG has had to control access

to the park and carpark very carefully. Only 1000 people are allowed in at any one time
and COVID regulations require us not to let anyone into the carpark until it is their turn to
enter the park itself.
On a fateful March day, a long, snaking queue of cars seeking to enter NG’s carpark
formed. It extending far beyond anything NG had ever seen. Some visitors were so fed
up that they just parked their cars by the roadside and walked in. This created a serious
road hazard on the two-lane, two-way public road leading into the park. Other visitors
drove onto land owned by Brian, who lived in a nearby bungalow, and simply parked on
the grass there. Brian eventually had to pay suffered $15,000 to get his lawn fixed, as he
had specially imported a rare Japanese grass variety for his garden.
NG had been around for thirty years and there have only been a few occasions where the
carpark overflowed. All occurred during cherry blossom season. They had considered
expanding the carpark but did not do so because it would have cost them quite a lot of
money and lost revenue (since they would be forced to close the park for two months
during the expansion). Separately, occupants of a nearby high-rise condominium called Park Blossoms had been
free-loading off our cherry blossom spectacle. A quick search on short-term rental sites
showed that many property owners there had put up their units for short-term stays around
March – April each year. These rentals were always advertised to have “spectacular views
of the Nihon Gardens’ wonderful cherry blossoms”. They charged highly premium prices.
As a result, during cherry blossom season the entire park-facing facade of Park Blossoms
would be filled with tourists and staycationeers pointing their binoculars and cameras at
NG’s precious cherry blossoms. At night, a flood of camera flashes would emanate from
the condo. This caused several of NG’s trees to fall ill. It has also prompted some of NG’s
actual visitors to leave bad reviews on their Google page complaining that “being in Nihon
Gardens during cherry blossom season is like being in a war zone bombarded by artillery”.
