CryptoMath (“CM”) is amongst the largest producers of the popular cryptocurrency Vit-
Coin (“VTC”). Under the VitCoin protocol, the currency is produced by throwing massive

computing resources to solve for the next largest prime number. Every new prime gen-
erates fresh VitCoins for the one who found it. This takes up significant compute, and

essentially all the VitCoin producing companies race against each other to be the first to
find the next prime.
To solve for primes, CM relies heavily on processors from a chipmaker known as RTX
Solutions. RTX makes all sorts of computer chips, including general purpose graphics
processing units. One of their chips, the RTX105, turned out to be particularly suited for
finding prime numbers, and has since become a staple of the VitCoin mining industry.
However, a recent expose published by CoinFail.com, a group of investigative journalists,
found that the actual prime processing power (VitCoiners call this PPP) was far below
what had been advertised for certain batches of the RTX105 sold in Singapore. The report
also showed that this originated from weaknesses in RTX’s quality control processes. RTX
has since publicly acknowledged this and promised to do better.
After learning about the problem, CM’s engineers benchmarked their RTXs and found that
they RTXs had indeed been operating at 800 instead of the advertised 1600 PPP for about
2 years now. CM estimates to have lost out on between 4,000 to 5,000 VitCoins. Based on
today’s CoinBase exchange rates, that makes about 400 to 500 thousand SGD.
VitCoins are valuable because they also serve as tokens entitling the holder to special
rights. The VitCoin is strongly supported by the International Society of Prime-Loving
Mathematicians (“ISPriMe”), who promises to give awards, recognition, and all forms of
goodies to those who present enough VitCoins. For example, 100 VTC entitles one to
name the next discovered prime after anything they want, including themselves. 1,000
VTC may be exchanged for a dinner with the society’s president, a Fields medal recipient
and the manager of a highly successful hedge fund. Those who have redeemed this even
once have said that it is truly a life-changing experience. And, as the ultimate glory,
5,000 VTC entitles one to being conferred the highly-prestigious Primes medal, the prime
number theory equivalent of the Fields. When CM wrote to RTX demanding compensation of 
5,000 VTC (or equivalents), they responded with an open letter published on their website RTX.com:

Dear CryptoMath,
While we are deeply sorry for that your RTX105s have not performed up to

your unique expectations, we regret that we cannot accede to your oddly-
specific demands.

Foremost, the RTX105 chips are general purpose processing units meant to
be applied for broad computing purposes. We did not recommend relying on
them for highly-intensive and financially-sensitive things, such as the mining
of VitCoin. For this reason, we do not hold any VitCoin, and do not hold
ourselves responsible to compensate crypto companies like yours, especially
when they are so many frauds out there and when your relationship with these
frauds is unclear.
Second, it is unreasonable for you to insist that we arrange a dinner with the
ISPriMe president for you.

Third, we are ourselves victims in this situation. Based on our internal in-
vestigations, details of which will soon be publicised, the Limited RTX105

Under-Performance Issue was exacerbated by external forces beyond our con-
trol. We are only a chip maker, and had paid a chip design consultancy in the

US to create the blueprint and architecture of the chip for us. The US chip

designer had not considered Singapore’s hot and humid climate, which oper-
ated together with the designer’s oversight to cause the Under-Performance.

Notably, the Under-Performance usually only occurs when the chips are put
under severe stress. For instance, if for some reason one were to unilaterally
decide to leave them on all day to find prime numbers.
Granted, had we checked more carefully we would have fixed the issue before
distributing the chips. However, taken together with the first three reasons
above, we do not believe we are liable to compensate you for your alleged
‘losses’.
