Sherry is a young doctor who graduated from medical school two years ago and just
completed her housemanship. She joins a medical team in Singapore Medical Hospital
(”SMH”) specialising in liver trauma and transplants. The team of four comprises Sherry,
Michael (team leader and senior principal consultant of hepatology in SMH), another doc-
tor John of 4 years’ experience, and Chloe, a senior staff nurse of 15 years’ experience.
In June 2023, a 55 year old man (called X, for patient confidentiality) is referred to Sherry’s
team. X is the Singapore managing director of a large international accounting firm. His
referral letter comes from Dr Jeff Heston, a renowned hepatologist from Pittsburg, USA.
Dr Heston writes:
For colleagues at Singapore Medical:
Referring X to you. Displays all classic signs of middle-stage liver failure.
Serious alcoholic. Have advised him to go sober. Patient says he complies but diagnostics suggests he does not really. Even tried to gift me a vintage
bottle of 1968 burgundy after last consult. In my professional opinion the
only solution is to proactively treat with liver transplant. Pointless to wait for
the inevitable. Suggested he do this at my practice in Pittsburg but he wanted
to go home. Patient unlikely to want to hear that alcohol cannot be allowed
post-treatment for at least six months. Advise careful discretion.
Sherry’s team has several consultations with X where they independently diagnose and
confirm that X indeed has middle-stage liver failure. They also confirm that X tends to
have high levels of blood alcohol even after being advised to avoid drinking. After a few
meetings, Michael advises X to undergo a liver transplant. One of X’s family members, Y,
happens to be a match. The parties have the following exchange:
X: Doctor Mike, I am ok to proceed with the proactive treatment as suggested,
but what are the risk factors?
Michael: Good to hear. Following our hospital’s internal risk advisory guide-
lines, these are the usual risks of a living donor transplant. [Michael reads a
long list of possible risks and side effects]
X: I see. And don’t mind if I ask, usually after surgery, drinking is not possi-
ble, yes? I mean, I know it’s usual to have to avoid for a while, but Dr Heston
has forced me to abstain for so long that I really can’t wait to have a taste once
again — when you say I can, of course.
Michael: You will need to avoid for at least six months after the surgery. After
that it depends. If you work hard and recover fast, most patients can go back
to normal food and drink consumption habits within one year.
X: Ok let’s do this then.
After this exchange, Michael instructs John and Sherry to prepare the donor Y for trans-
plant while he handles X personally. John and Sherry perform the standard series of pre-
donation checks on Y. They discover, following these checks, that Y has been allergic to
alcohol since birth, and would get rashes even from using hand sanitiser. Sherry asks John is they should report this to Michael. John says: “Do you want to get another scolding
from Michael? It’s not clear alcohol allergies are caused by the liver. Even then it may
not carry over in transplant. You know how Mike keeps saying we must put the patient’s
interest first? X may not do the surgery if told. I’d say no need to say too much”. Sherry
agreed. Chloe, who was in the room, heard the entire exchange and said nothing. Sherry
records the findings in SMH’s system but does not mention Y’s allergy. Records also show
that Michael accessed and read the report the next day.
A few days later the team proceeds with the operation. It was a huge success. Within
a week X is discharged from SMH with strict no-alcohol directions for six months. At
followup session six months later, Michael performs all the standard post-liver-transplant
checks (which do not including testing for allergies). Seeing all was in order, Michael
clears X for alcohol consumption. The next day, X shows up at SMH’s Accident & Emer-
gency department. He is unconscious and diagnosed with severe anaphylactic shock (i.e. a
very bad allergic reaction). Michael and team rush to see him. Y, who accompanied X on
the ambulance, tells the team that X had opened one of his most prized wines to “celebrate
his second life, thanks to Y”, and gulped down the entire first glass. The doctors were able
to revive X, who eventually makes a full recovery. However, after learning that he will
be allergic to alcohol for life, he is threatening to sue SMH for medical negligence. He
alleges that their oversight caused him to suffer allergic reaction above and also lose the
ability to drink for the rest of his life.