Dear Partner,
I would like you to sue my private jet operator. Below is what happened.
I run own and run TrainAI, as you know. Our core business is providing on-demand cloud
compute for tech companies and startups seeking to train, finetune, or host their AI models.
Sell shovels during a gold rush, as they say.
For obvious reasons, our data centres are located in the East and West extremes of Singa-
pore — Tuas, Tengah, and Changi to be precise. I am a very hands on CEO and make it a
point to visit and inspect every data centre daily. Because my time is worth literally mil-
lions, I generally fly from end to end. This saves me an hour every day which I use to make
important business decisions. I have been paying East-West Airlines (EWAL) S$100,000
a month for this service. I take their 0900–0930 flight from Changi airbase to Tengah airbase every morning. EWAL has a special licence from the Republic of Singapore Air
Force that allows them to do this.
Inexplicably, on 24 September last month a whole bunch of my engineers showed up
several hours late for work at our Tuas Data Centre (TDC). I have fired them all, of course.
Problem was, at around 0930 hours that day, TDC saw a huge spike in server demand, as
if a whole lot of people suddenly had nothing to do but train or use AI. There were not
enough staff on site to upscale our servers to handle the increased load. By 1000 hours,
TDC was at max capacity, and by 1030 the entire cluster got overloaded and crashed.
Given my elite coder skills, I could have single-handedly averted the disaster had I man-
aged to reach TDC on time. This is where EWAL comes back in. During the incident I was
stuck on my usual daily flight without access to WiFi. (EWAL’s dismal flight service does
not come with it.) Usually this is fine because the entire flight is only 20 minutes. On that
day, however, the plane took off incredibly late, at 0910. I was told that “the pilot needed
to make additional flightworthiness checks”. This seemed strange to me as it had never
happened before. I suspect the real reason was because the incompetent pilot showed up
late to work.
To make things worse, in mid-air the pilot sheepishly told me he had forgotten to file the
clearances to land at Tengah. This was around 0925. We started circling the airbase while
EWAL’s ground staff rushed to fast-track the approvals. However, at 0945 I was told that
a surprise air defence drill had been initiated, so all military airfields in Singapore had to
be reserved for military use only from 0940 onwards. I only managed to land at 1400
hours. I reached TDC at 1410. By then, some of the senior engineers had made it back to
work. They reported that the root cause of TDC’s crash was really quite simple — when
the servers started to get overwhelmed, a simple fix would have been to spin up the backup
data centre we had built in Malaysia. Problem was, this required CEO-level approval, and
I had been uncontactable. With my incredible help, we got the servers back up at 1435.
Based on our service contracts, TrainAI has to compensate our users a total of $1.5 million
in damages for each full hour of downtime. For example, if we are down for 1.9 hours, we
are only liable for 1 hour. Thus the total damage that EWAL has wrought upon us is $4.5
million. Fortunately, due to my amazing public relations skills, I managed to contain any
further fallout. The total amount is petty change, I know, but I want to make sure they pay for this as a matter of principle. Please advise me on how best I can make them pay. Your
retainer will be duly renewed if you do a good job.
Axe.