Dear Partner,
Been a while since our last catch up. I recently started a new tech company in Singapore.
I hatched the idea with my usual partners in crime one day over a couple of beers. We
called it the Bockchain (pun totally intended). It’s a company that uses the blockchain to
sell beer! So here’s how it works. My friend and co-founder Shelley owns a microbrewery.
We take the beer she produces and put them in vending machines all around Singapore.
Normally this would not be legal, because there is no way to stop vending machines from
selling beer to children, so the pesky regulators would not grant a licence for this. But due
to my genius, we convinced them that our blockchain-based software would serve as an
effective way to enforce age restrictions on our customers.
The tech behind this is very simple, really. We first created our own token, BockCoin,
on the standard Ethereum framework. We then made sure our vending machines only
accepted BockCoin as payment. BockCoin can only be purchased using Singapore dollars using BockApp, an iOS/Android app developed and maintained by our company. Before
any purchase can be made, however, users must undertake that they are of drinking age,
and further provide us with a real-time picture of themselves as well as photo of their
NRIC. The BockApp back-end software then runs a standard facial and image recognition
module on both the user’s face and the NRIC to identify potentially under-aged users.
Between you and I, these checks only work 70% of the time, so we expect that 30% of
BockApp users may be underaged (or otherwise not who they claim to be). But hey, no
software’s perfect, and we realised that making the software better would limit our sales,
so why block these people?
Anyway, last month I got a frantic call from Shelley asking me to read the news. Appar-
ently a bunch of 15-year-olds had gotten drunk off our product at the Downtown East
chalet. We have several machines stationed there for obvious reasons. Our database
records show that they had bought the beer at around 2200hrs. One of the teenagers in
the group managed to buy BockCoin because they had submitted a copy of their parents’
NRIC accompanying that was a clearly AI-editted photo — the kind you get from those
apps which promise to let you see how you look as an old man.
Either way, around 2am that day, the four of them then took an alcohol-fuelled joyride
down Changi Coast road on e-scooters they had rented from the chalet the previous morn-
ing. Traffic cameras showed them speeding up and down the road, which meant they
sometimes went in the wrong direction of travel. Things were fine initially because there
was no car traffic at all. However, at around 0345am, one of the teenagers lost control of
their e-scooter and veered into the oncoming lane. A lorry travelling slightly beyond the
speed limit at the time crashed headfirst into them. The impact threw them against a nearby
raintree. Possibly because of recent torrential rains, one of the tree branches snapped and
came crashing down on one of the other teenagers. The other two were lucky to escape
unharmed, but witnessed everything firsthand. The lorry driver took off and has still not
been found.
In total, the four victims suffered the following injuries:
1. P1: Hit by the lorry and had to amputate a leg. Because of the extended hospitalisa-
tion, P1 had to miss their O-levels and will have to re-sit the exam next year.
2. P2: The tree branch fell on their right (master) hand. It will recover eventually but
they had to make special arrangements for their O-level exams as they could not use
it to write or type.
3. P3: They were dating P1 and developed an RPI following the incident.
4. P4: The only one to escape without any harm at all. Ironically, they were the one
who bought the Bock.
None of them have thought to sue us yet, but I am writing just to be sure. In case they
come after us, what might BockChain be liable for, if anything? I am quite prepared to
concede that we were careless for not making the age verification software better, but my
sense is that what happened was really far off.
