Good afternoon. I hope this email finds you well and in the best of health. I am writing
to seek your distinguished law firm’s advice on a matter of serious concern to our game
studio. The facts are below and please answer the questions at the end.
In May this year, Tensendo released a new game virtual-reality game called Kendo Hunter.
In this game, players wear headsets and use handheld controllers, one on each hand, that
turn into wooden swords in the VR world. The game is simply about using these swords
to defeat things and claim honour. There are two game modes. In the player-versus-
environment (PvE) mode, the human player fights against computer enemies, which could
be ninjas, zombies, or even huge monsters. In the player-versus-player (PvP) mode, people
can fight with other humans online. The two game modes are linked. As players advance
further in PvE, they unlock more powerful weapons, armour,a and skills and they can use
in PvP. Players can then specialise in specific weapon types from spears to broadswords. 
This game became very popular because of how realistic the fighting was. Our engineers
created a very advanced system for perfectly translating players’ real life movements into
game movements. This includes both their sword swings and their body movements for
dodging attacks. The only thing we do not track is players’ leg movements, because we
designed the game to be playable without any walking or running. The only way to move
in the game world is using a joystick on the right controller. Currently, the game is only
playable through TensenVR, a VR headset developed entirely by our studio. It is a typical
VR headset that does not allow players to see the real world while they have it on.
Building on the game’s success, we organised the world’s first ‘Kendo Hunter Live’ tour-
nament at Suntec City last month. We rented a convention hall and set up a real life 8x8m
boxing ring. Near the middle of the ring we constructed two custom-made booths, one for
each competitor, which essential was a soft circular platform 2m in diameter and 30cm in
height (i.e. thickness). Each was surrounded by one horizontal rope cordon at 1m above
ring level. The booths were placed 3m apart (measured from centre to centre). During
the tournament, competitors would enter these booths, put on their TensenVRs and start
battling with their respective weapons. The competition rules, which all participants must
sign before competing, states as follows:
Event Rules
1. You are participating in Kendo Hunter Live at your own risk. Although the
game is primarily virtual, Kendo Hunter involves certain physical movements
in the real world. Participants must take care when competing to avoid the
possibility of serious injury.
2. A specific rule of the competition is that players must not leave the compe-
tition zone during a match. To avoid doubt, the competition zone refers to the
circular booths assigned to each player. Players who breach this rule will be
immediately disqualified.
3. Every round lasts exactly 5 minutes.
4. Every in-game hit on any part of the opponent scores exactly one point.
The competition attracted most of our top ranked players and a strong audience. Many fans
flew in from all over Asia to support their favourite teams. The atmosphere got particularly tense in the semifinals as the world’s top 2 players were facing off. The top seed (P1)
specialised in short range daggers while the second seed (P2) wielded a two-handed great
sword that was over 2m long (in the game).
The players got into their booths and put on their headsets. The instant the battle began,
both started unleashing a flurry of attacks at each other at lightning speed. With 5 seconds
left on the clock, and both players at equal points, P2 went for a drastic move that involved
throwing themselves onto the ground (in real life) and slashing his controllers along the
floor. This maneuver causes one’s in-game character to perform a ‘low-sweep’ attack
that is very difficult to avoid our game does not allow jumping. We the developers did
not actually know such a move was possible until some semi-pro player chanced upon
the technique accidentally because she fell while playing the game one week before the
tournament. The community started calling this the “death strike” both because of how
lethal it was to opponents in-game and to players in real life (since some people got injured
trying to do it). We considered updating the game to remove it, but did not want to disturb
the game so close to the tournament.
Either way, P1 was taken completely aback by this move. She instinctively tried to jump
(in real life) away from it. Their in-game character still got hit, but the bigger problem was
that she ended up tripping over the rope barrier, thereafter falling and breaking their wrists.
Meanwhile, P2 landed badly and broke his jaw while performing the death strike. Both
players were given swift and prompt medical assistance. I hear they will soon recover
but the medical bills are substantial. Neither can play the finals so both will miss the
S$500,000 grand prize.
I am worried they will sue us for negligence and would seek you advice on the viability
of any such claim. Our legal team said we should not contest duty (whatever that means),
but will need advice on all other areas. Please take good care of us. Thank you.