White Sands Cottage (WSC) is a luxurious assisted living facility for the elderly. Residents
are provided well-furnished living quarters, excellent food, wellness programs and nursing
care where needed. While they are free to leave the residence on their own, most
residents do not as WSC provides most, if not all, of their needs.
Recently, Tom became a resident of WSC and took a liking to Violet, a physiotherapist
employed by WSC. Violet politely declined Tom’s invitations to dinner on various
occasions. Violet is in a romantic relationship with Paul, who worked as a pastry chef in

WSC’s kitchen. WSC’s terms of employment disallow such romantic liaisons between co-
workers. WSC’s kitchen operations are outsourced to Best Foods (BF), and Paul is

employed by BF to run the operations that produce WSC’s daily dessert menu selections.
Although WSC owns the kitchen and all its equipment, BF manages the kitchen staff and
directly handles the residents’ feedback on the quality and variety of the daily menu
offerings.
Paul is angry with Tom for trying to date Violet and confronts Tom. He shakes his fist at
Tom and says in a harsh tone: “Stop disturbing Violet or you will meet my fist tonight!”.
Tom, feeling threatened by Paul’s tall stature and aggressive tone, retaliated. In front of a
large number of residents and staff, Tom exclaimed that Paul was actually a former prison
inmate who had been convicted of various criminal offences, and that he should not be
allowed to work in a place like WSC. Although BF was aware of Paul’s criminal record,
they had decided to give him a second chance to reintegrate into society. Paul, both
incensed by and highly distressed at this public humiliation, punches Tom. The latter falls
backwards, hits his head on the ground and suffers a skull fracture.
WSC’s security officers are summoned, but Paul escapes before they arrive. Paul drives
off from WSC hurriedly in his car in order to avoid police investigations into a possible
offence under the Penal Code, with Violet accompanying him. Her work permit recently
expired and she was also keen to avoid police questioning as her continued employment
with WSC would be an immigration offence punishable by imprisonment or a fine. Agitated
by what transpired earlier, Paul discusses the recent chain of events with Violet while
driving, and does not pay proper attention to the road ahead. A lorry coming in the opposite
direction carelessly swerves into Paul’s lane in order to overtake a slow moving car. Paul
does not react in time and they collide head-on with the lorry, resulting in both Paul and
Violet suffering serious injuries.