Dear Partner,
Long time. I remember your stellar business law notes in uni and am reaching out to
ask for some real advice on a matter that just came up. One of the startups I advise just
got a lawyers’ letter demanding they cease operations and I need help on how we should
respond.
The startup Wallrus was founded by three post-grad computer science students at Singa-
pore University of Startups (SUS). Their idea, which I completely loved when they pitched
me, was to sell computer vision AI add-ons to commercial CCTVs that allow them to
detect mold, cracks, leaks, rust, and other potential issues in building walls. I invested
almost immediately when they told me of the huge addressable market. Apparently Sin-
gapore companies and residents spend upwards of S$500 million a year fixing such wall
issues (internally we call them Wall-Ees). So any software that enables early detecting and
reporting is worth millions. I told them that to protect their IP and ensure no one can steal their AI, they must only train
their AI on their own hardware, which my venture capital was more than capable of spon-
sor. I also said they should operate as lean as possible, so they essentially avoided renting
actual office space for their training clusters. Instead, they have essentially converted their
student housing, located in an apartment building owned by SUS along Waterloo Street,
into a data centre. They did this with full permission from SUS, who were very proud to
have their students running a multi-million dollar, VC-backed startup.
Using my capital, Wallrus bought dozens of state-of-the-art H100 chips and have been
training, hosting, and serving their AI systems from a super-computing cluster they’d set
up in the apartment. This of course incur significant electricity costs, but we have a special
arrangement with SUS that allows us to pay our fair share for the additional usage.
The lawyer’s letter came last month from Liquid Drake (LD), a company whose storage
facilities are located in a unit on the same floor in the adjacent building (not owned by
SUS). LD has been in that building for six years. They sell energy drinks which it markets
as being “the absolute coolest you can get”. They are typically stored in liquid nitrogen and
only taken out when someone orders them on their app. Apparently the drink’s efficacy in
revitalising people is most effective when consumed at freezing temperatures.
LD’s and SUS’s buildings were built in the 1950s and I’m not too sure what kind of
insulation they have. Also, the buildings are joined physically, in that they share a common
middle wall. As fate would have it — as if this was some kind of business school law
hypothetical — Wallrus and LD’s units just happen to be two units down from each other.
That is, Wallrus’ data centre is the leftmost on SUS’s building’s third storey while LD’s
unit is second from the right. The unit on the rightmost of LD’s building is unoccupied;
its previous tenant got busted for money laundering and all its officers ran away, leaving
the office eerily abandoned.
According to LD’s letter, their cold storage coolers have been constantly overworking and
breaking down ever since Wallrus set up shop in May last year. They had been puzzled at
why this was happening for some time and had even tried replacing their coolers with bet-
ter quality ones — to no avail. These cooling problems had seriously affected their sales.
Recently they stumbled across an SUS press release championing the ‘AI whizzes’ oper-
ating from their student residences and began to sense a connection. LD is demanding that Wallrus stop training their AI systems in SUS accommodation immediately. Attached to
their lawyer’s letter was also an expert report they had commissioned to study why the tem-
perature in their building was constantly elevated. The report, which seems very credible
to me, indicated “the presence of significant heat sources consistent with the round-the-
clock operation of heavy machinery and/or computer clusters in the vicinity” as the main
source of the problem.
To make matters worse, LD managed to enlist support from several other SUS students
living on the same floor. It turned out they had also been having their aircons breaking
down constantly. Coupled with the recent hot weather, it has been difficult for them to
study at home. One of them happened to be an SUS law student and took it upon herself
to draft a fancy legal letter. The students sent this to both Wallrus and SUS, making
essentially the same claims and demands as LD.
I need to make sure this startup flourishes because I have bet almost the entire fund on
them. Would you kindly let us know how we can get LD and the other pesky SUS students
off our backs? It would be important also to make sure we keep SUS on our side.