Ever since it was re-zoned for mixed commercial and residential use 10 years ago,
Kampong Kechil has gained the reputation as a bustling food and beverage district with
many restaurants, cafes, bars as well as residential properties. Burger and Blues (B&B)
is one of the most popular restaurants in Kampong Kechil. It opened for business about a
year ago and rapidly gained popularity. The restaurant is open till 2 am in the morning and
there is live music on the restaurant patio on weekends. As alcohol is also served, B&B’s
customers are usually noisy and rowdy.
Anna lives in an apartment on the third floor of a building just behind B&B which she found
on a short term rental website. She has leased the apartment for 4 weeks from the owner
who is overseas. She complains about the noise and fumes from B&B’s large metal
chimney that is just 4 metres away from her bedroom window. Anna cannot open her
bedroom windows because of the strong smell of stale oil. Harry, B&B’s owner, says that
he cannot do more to reduce the noise and fumes from the exhaust system as the
upgrading costs are prohibitive and would wipe out his first year of profits.
The noise from B&B at night kept Anna awake and she suffered from a lack of sleep. This
aggravated Anna’s pre-existing skin allergy condition. She woke up one morning to find
that her face, arms and legs were covered in painful blisters. She visited a dermatologist
immediately, who then carelessly prescribed some new medication without checking
Anna’s allergy history. The next day, Anna collapsed because of a serious allergic reaction
to the new medication. This caused Anna permanent kidney failure and she now has to
undergo regular dialysis treatment.
Ivan lives in a ground floor apartment in the same building as Anna, in which he has a
small garden where he grows rare orchids. One day, Ivan woke up to a horrible stench.
When he looked out into his garden, he realized to his horror that it was flooded with raw
sewage. Ivan’s neighbours also had their gardens flooded with raw sewage. Most of his
precious orchids were ruined. Investigations revealed that a ‘fatberg’ had clogged up the
main sewer pipe running underground along an adjacent road and this caused raw
sewage to overflow into the surrounding area. A ‘fatberg’ is a congealed mass of fat, oil,
grease, wet wipes and other items that have been washed down sinks and toilets instead
of being properly disposed of.
Investigations further revealed that B&B’s waste oil processing equipment was not
working (which would have broken down the oil into a less harmful substance), and its
staff have been pouring waste oil down the kitchen sink and drainage pipes despite regular
reminders from National Environment Agency officers not to do so. Despite this, Harry
claims that he did not know that the improper disposal of waste oil could lead to the
formation of a ‘fatberg’. He also points out that other restaurants and cafes in the area
were also discarding waste oil into the sewers. However, the large volume of waste oil
discarded from B&B materially increased the risk of the fatberg forming.