Clean Future Ltd operates a large landfill (a place where waste is buried in the land as a
form of disposal) in Willow Town. There are some residential houses and a home for the
aged (Peace Home) near the landfill. Large trucks transporting garbage from all parts of
Singapore arrive at the landfill round the clock. The traffic and landfill activity causes a lot
of noise. The landfill also produces odours and gases because of decomposition. Crows,
rats and other scavenging animals are frequently found on the landfill. Occasionally, Clean
Future Ltd burns some of the rubbish in the open.
Charlene lives in a single-storey house near the landfill which she is renting on a two-year
lease. Despite keeping the windows closed at all times, she is still bothered by the stench
and traffic noise. The traffic noise keeps her awake at night and she does not get much
sleep. As a result, she is unable to concentrate at work and suffers from frequent
headaches and chest pains. Charlene owns a restaurant and often buys expensive
cooking ingredients which she keeps in a storage room at her home. Recently, she
discovered that rats had entered her home and destroyed all her cooking ingredients,
including a rare herb that is valued at $1,500.
Millie lives in the house next to Charlene. One day, in accordance with its usual practice,
the landfill workers dampened the surrounding area after burning waste and left the
remaining fire to burn out. A strong gust of wind reignited the fire a few hours later, and
the fire spread towards Millie's garden. As soon as she saw the fire advancing towards
her garden, Millie called the “995” hotline operated by the Singapore Civil Defence Force.
The hotline operator informed her that a fire engine will arrive at her residence in
approximately 10 minutes, and that she should stay clear of the fire. However, the fire
engine arrived nearly 40 minutes after the call. By this time, the fire had destroyed her
garden shed, front porch and parked car. It turned out that the fire engine arrived later
than predicted because it had been provided erroneous information. The operator had
typed in the wrong residential postal code into the system when she received the call and
the fire engine driver initially went to the wrong address. If they had arrived in the time
indicated, most of the property damage would have been averted.
Peace Home has also recently discovered that the soil in its garden contains dangerous
levels of toxic contaminants, which are known to increase the risk of developing various
cancers. It was found that the source of the toxic contaminants is the landfill. Liquids
containing the toxic contaminants leaked from the landfill into the neighbouring land. It is
common knowledge that leakage frequently occurs in landfills, and that it is very costly to
build a leak-proof landfill. Clean Future had considered retro-fitting its landfill a few years
ago to reduce the risk of leakage but decided against it because of the high costs. Peace
Home wants an injunction issued against Clean Future to stop its operations.