Donald is a businessman who wishes to build a business empire servicing the needs of elderly people. He commissions Halimah, an investment consultant, to prepare a demographic report identifying locations in Singapore with high proportions of aging citizens. Donald informs Halimah that his son, Jared, will help him with the business project. Jared works closely with Halimah, who identifies the Sungei Kadut area as having the highest proportion of elderly residents. Halimah also identifies an existing block of apartments in Sungei Kadut that can be converted into a nursing home. She submits her report to Donald and gives a copy to Jared, suggesting that he, Jared, buy the apartment block. Relying on the report, Jared uses his own money to purchase the block of apartments to convert into a nursing home. Soon after Jared’s purchase of the apartment block, the Government announces that it will provide subsidized nursing home facilities in Sungei Kadut for elderly Singaporeans. Halimah had negligently failed to note this major Government project when she prepared her report. Jared loses a significant amount of his investment in the planned nursing home.

Jared turns the nursing home into a dormitory for foreign workers to reduce his loss. In no time, the dormitory is filled with workers from India. Many of the Indian workers enjoy playing cricket and do so every evening until late in the night, playing under the street lights. Occasionally, a ball will fly into an apartment block located over 120 meters away from the dormitory. Saras, the owner of one of the apartments, is incensed when a cricket ball smashes through her kitchen window. She also resents the workers playing cricket and complaining about the noise. None of the other residents are bothered by the cricket and many of them in fact join the workers for a game. Saras is upset because she grew up next to a cricket pitch and has developed a hatred for the sport which dominated her early childhood.

Saras decides to find a way to shut down the dormitory across her street. After painstaking research, she discovers that Jared has not complied with one of the regulatory requirements under the Foreign Employee Dormitories Act 2015. She seeks the assistance of her uncle, George, a property developer. Following an agreed plan of action with Saras, George files a complaint with the Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories, who revokes Jared’s licence to operate a foreign employee dormitory, causing Jared economic loss.

Separately, Global Cities, a major construction company that employs foreign construction workers from China, enters into a contract with Jared for the provision of dormitories. Jared converts a second building in Bishan to accommodate the Chinese workers. George, who has some vacant properties, approaches Global Cities and offers to provide dormitories at half the rate charged by Jared. Global Cities accepts George’s offer and breaches its contract with Jared, causing him economic loss with respect to his Bishan dormitory.