Play World is an amusement park. Ang, Beng and Chan are three school-mates who visit the park one Saturday. Beng and Chan buy their entrance tickets, enter lawfully and obtain visitor stamps on their right hands.

Ang puts on a fake security officer's uniform and manages to enter the park as well as obtain a stamp on his right hand as if he were a visitor who had bought an entrance ticket. This deception is an offence punishable with a fine of $500 and/or a sentence of community service for 2 weeks.

Ang changes back into his regular clothes. He takes a ride on the **PW Ferris Wheel**. On the second turn of the wheel, right about the top of the circle, the engine stops. The engine has been poorly maintained by Play World for some time. During this time Ang sends WhatsApp messages repeatedly to Play World to complain and insult "all you useless people". The messages are relayed to the safety engineer who becomes incensed and thinks to himself "I'll leave you where you are, you ungrateful kid". The safety engineer leaves for home without completing the repair. Ang is left trapped in his seat for another hour before another engineer completes the repair of the engine, so that Ang can be brought down. Upon descent, Ang feels embarrassed and is slightly dehydrated—although, thankfully, not physically injured. He wants Play World to compensate him for both the 30 minutes, and the next full hour, of his entrapment at the top of the wheel.

Ang's predicament is witnessed by Chan who, unknown to Ang, harbours ill-feelings towards Ang. Chan takes a photo of Ang trapped in his seat at the top of the PW Ferris Wheel, and he sends it to Ang's mother with the caption: "Too bad, Auntie. Your son probably gonna die today. Hehe." Ang's mother is terrified on seeing and reading this on her smart-phone. Ang is her only child. Ang's mother becomes emotionally upset for a few hours worrying about Ang and sobbing uncontrollably. She is relieved only when Ang arrives home that evening. Ang's mother continues to suffer from the occasional flashbacks of that event. She wants to sue Chan for "this sick joke".

Beng and Chan play a game called Soft Bojutsu inside the designated ring. Two combatants are given large plastic sticks covered in padded foam. The objective is to force the other person out of the ring by pushing him or hitting him with the stick. Beng had his braces removed a week ago. He was advised by his dentist not to engage in "rough contact sports" for a month but the lure of the game was too strong for the teenager. There is a prominent sign at the entrance to the ring, that reads:

1. All players shall wear helmets as provided by Play World.

2. A player may not hit the other player's head whether with the stick or using any part of your own body.

An umpire offers Beng a helmet. Beng refuses to wear it saying, "no one is allowed to hit my head anyway". The umpire allows Beng to play the game with Chan. You may assume that it is negligent of the umpire not to insist on Beng wearing the helmet. Beng and Chan begin their fight, during which Chan successfully hits Beng's torso very hard several times. Chan then taps Beng lightly on his head. Beng collapses from the pain of the hard hits to his torso. As a result of Beng collapsing on the floor, his newly-corrected teeth are smashed out of position. Beng forgives his friend Chan but wants Play World to compensate him for his injuries.

Advise Ang, Ang's mother and Beng of the torts that may have been committed against them by the defendant each wants to sue and the legal issues that may arise in each suit. Where the tort is negligence, you may assume and need not discuss the existence of the defendant's duty of care and the defendant's breach of the duty owed. Where Play World is sued, you may assume it is legally responsible for all the acts or omissions of its staff at the amusement park.