Cate had booked an outdoor campsite owned by the Dairy Farm Group (DRG), located next to
the Dairy Farm Nature Park, to hold the party on 22 October 2023.
Cate thinks it would be nice to engage someone to entertain the children at her son’s birthday
party, so she sets up a meeting with Bing whom she knows performs as a clown at children’s
parties. Bing’s main act is the making of balloon animals which he will give away to the children
at the party. Aside from this, Bing’s standard performance routine also includes the
performance of magic tricks, juggling and other acrobatics.

At the meeting, Cate says, “I was told that your speciality is balloon animal sculpturing. My son
loves balloon animals!” Bing nods and says he will make sure that each child at the party gets at
least three balloon animals. Cate and Bing agree that he will perform at her son’s birthday party
which will be held at the Dairy Farm campsite for an hour from around 11 am for $1,000. Bing
requires Cate to pay $200 of the fee immediately, with the balance $800 to be paid at the end
of his performance at the party. Cate only has $100 cash on her and hands that over to Bing,
promising to pay the other $100 later, before they part ways. But Cate forgets to pay it.
For the party, Cate engages Dee, a home-baker, to provide the birthday cake and other baked treats. Cate informs Dee that her son is gluten-intolerant, and orders from Dee a special gluten-
free cake as well as other gluten-free treats. Dee agrees to bake a 4 kg gluten-free triple-layer chocolate cake (big enough to feed thirty) as well as assorted gluten-free cookies for a total fee
of $600. The parties sign a contract that includes the following clauses:

1. Dee agrees to bake, decorate and supply to the Customer (a) one 4 kg gluten-free triple-layer
chocolate cake and (b) one jumbo box of assorted gluten-free cookies (that correspond to the
descriptions and pictures in the Appendix) for a total contract fee of $600.

2. This offer shall be accepted by the payment of 10% of the contract fee to Dee (the ‘acceptance fee’).

3. The balance of the contract fee shall be paid after the baked goods to be supplied by Dee are
delivered to the Customer.

4. Delivery shall be made to the Customer at [Dairy Farm campsite Plot 1 address] no later than 12 pm
on 22 October 2023.

5. It is hereby agreed that following acceptance of this offer, if the contract cannot be performed owing
to circumstances beyond the parties’ control, Dee shall be excused for failing to perform and will be
entitled to keep the 10% acceptance fee.

On the day of her son’s party, Cate arrives at the campsite at 9 am to get ready for the guests.
An hour after Cate’s arrival, Dee calls her to say that while driving to deliver the cake and
cookies, she was hit in the rear by a lorry — the impact was so bad that she lost control of the
van and it overturned. Fortunately, the airbags deployed and Dee is not injured. However, the
cake and cookies in the van are destroyed completely.

Dee apologises for the situation but says she will not be able to deliver the gluten-free cake and
cookies as promised. Cate tactlessly says, “But can you still supply a cake and cookies so that at
least my guests can have something to eat?” Dee is hurt at Cate’s lack of concern at her narrow
escape. She replies, “Of course not. I have just barely escaped with my life. I’m in no condition
to supply you with baked goods in this state”, and slams down the phone. When Cate tries to
call Dee again to clarify and apologise, Dee refuses to answer.

At close to 11 am, Cate’s “little” guests arrive, as does Bing, whom Cate welcomes as he can
keep the guests entertained while she tries to make alternative catering arrangements. All the
children (including Cate’s son) crowd around Bing and his equipment with excitement. Bing gets
ready for his clown routine and is 15 minutes into it when Cate’s son starts to pull at his
costume, causing Bing to trip and fall.

Bing exclaims loudly as he falls, and his dentures drop out onto the ground. The children laugh
uproariously thinking this is part of the act. A child picks up the dentures and runs around the
campsite with them until Bing manages to corner him. As Bing turns around, he notices that a
group of children has emptied the contents of his bag and strewn them all over the campsite.

This is the last straw for Bing. He stomps over to Cate to express his dismay at the badly
behaved children and announce that he is leaving. At this point, Bing has not begun his balloon
animal making yet; he usually segues into that after the first 20 minutes of his act, when he will
incorporate balloon animal making as part of his clowning, “magic tricks” and acrobatics, before
giving the balloon animals away.

But before Bing could speak to Cate, a lightning bolt shoots out from the sky and hits a tree
standing at the edge of the campsite. There is a loud explosion, and the tree catches fire. A lit
branch from the burning tree falls on Bing’s balloon-making equipment and supplies, destroying
them completely. Bing quickly rescues and packs up the rest of his things, tells Cate he cannot
go on with his performance and leaves after telling her he will call the fire brigade.

A non-plussed Cate gathers all the children and they retreat to a safe spot. Cate then calls DRG
to tell them about the fire, and DRG, in turn, also calls the fire brigade. The fire fighters arrive
15 minutes later and extinguishes the fire in just over 30 minutes. For the children, all this
excitement more than makes up for Bing’s aborted performance; from their perspective, it has
been a great party. Cate also managed to order gluten-free pizza to be delivered while they
were watching the scene unfold, so everyone was fed.

A week later, Cate receives invoices from Dee and Bing. Bing claims he is owed $900 for his
performance at the party. Dee is demanding $540 being the balance unpaid under her contract
with Cate.