For Part B, the facts of Part A are changed as follows:

Cate does not see a party package on Bing’s website that suits her son and sets up a meeting with Bing with a request that he proposes a custom package for children interested in clowning and balloon twists. At the meeting, Bing hands Cate a letter of proposal which indicates a package costing $1,000 comprising 30 minutes of clowning lessons and 30 minutes of balloon twisting by Bing for a maximum of 20 children. The clowning lessons will include learning the clown walk and antics, clown face painting and dressing up as clowns with each child getting to keep the clown suit. Each child will also receive at least 3 balloon sculptures from the balloon twist show. Delighted with the proposal, Cate helps Bing to fill a Booking Form which sets out the following:

Clause 1: The Customer Cate Lee of Mobile Telephone No: 90090009 shall hire Bing to perform Party Package Custom at a children’s party on 1 September from 11.00 am.

Clause 2: The performance venue shall be at 1, Jalan Pelawak, Singapore 111111.

Clause 3: The agreed fees of $1,000 shall be due and payable at the end of the performance
Engagement.

Clause 4: This Agreement shall be subject to Bing’s usual Terms and Conditions, a copy of
which will be made available upon the Customer’s request.

Bing encourages Cate to read the Booking Form before she signs it. However, Cate was
interrupted by a phone call urging her to return to Cate’s Cuppa because of an emergency. Cate thus signs the Form with only a cursory glance. After Bing gives Cate a copy of the Booking Form, she leaves in a hurry.

What happens on 1 September is as described in Part A with the additional facts below:
At Cate’s home, when Bing opens his bag, he notices that it does not contain the supplies for the clowning lessons or the balloon twists show. Instead, it contains supplies for a different party package: comedy magic show, puppet show and party games and prizes. Bing proceeds with the comedy magic show and was twenty minutes into it when Cate’s son pulls on his costume and causes him to fall with the attendant consequences; and
When the group of children empties Bing’s bag of its contents, Cate cannot help but notice that it does not contain any face-paints, clown suits or balloon twist supplies before Bing complains to her about the children’s bad behaviour and tells her he is leaving.

Among Bing’s usual Terms and Conditions are the following terms:

Clause B: In accordance with Bing’s usual practice, if he finds that the children at the
party are too badly behaved, he is permitted to end his performance
engagement immediately. In such a case, the Customer shall not be entitled
to any reduction in the agreed fee.

Clause C: This Agreement embodies all the terms and conditions agreed upon
between the Customer and Bing in respect of the subject matter of this
Agreement.