Dave’s son, Ace, a local TV star, is getting married to fellow TV star, Bea. The celebrity couple
started planning for what had been billed in the media as the “2023 wedding of the year in
Singapore”. The wedding was to take place on 22 October 2023.
The couple wanted a beachside wedding at Sentosa beach for 200 guests. There are rival event
companies that organise beach weddings at stretches of the beach fronting particular resorts
on Sentosa island. Each event company would enter into a tie-up with a particular resort in
order to use the resort’s stretch of the beach for such events.
In June 2023, Ace approached Celeb Weddings (“Celeb”) that has a tie-up with Sentosa SUN
Resort (“SUN”). Elle, the owner of Celeb, took Ace on a site visit. There were members of the
public on the beach and Elle said, “If we organise your wedding celebrations here, you will have
the use of a private beachside.”
Ace nodded and said, “Wonderful! Listen, my guests must be protected from the sun and rain.
A tent is a must! The food, the seating, everything must be in an air-conditioned tent. Also, I
have sold the sole right to publish all details and pictures of my wedding party to a high society
magazine. It’s imperative that no one in your company leaks out any information about my
party to outsiders. Not a single detail!” To all this Elle responded, “No problem!”
Ace signed a contract with Celeb and paid 20% of the contract price. The contract terms include:
Clause 1: This is a contract between you, Ace Tan of [ID No], and Celeb Weddings.
Clause 2: You agree to engage Celeb Weddings to organise a wedding party for you at the Sentosa

SUN Resort beachfront to be held on 22 October 2023, from 10 am to 4 pm.

Clause 3: Celeb Weddings shall provide:

a. exclusive and private use of the SUN’s beachfront on the said date and time.
b. an air-conditioned tent with standard lighting amenities;
c. a theatre set-up with seating and lectern with audio-visual amenities;
d. round tables and chairs for 10 persons per table;
e. décor; and
f. 10-course lunch and guest giveaways.

Clause 4: Celeb Weddings shall provide the items in Clause 3(d to f) according to your chosen

theme and/or selections.

Clause 5: Celeb Weddings reserves the right to terminate this contract if you fail to provide the
approvals or confirmations necessary for the successful organisation of this event.
Clause 6: Celeb Weddings undertakes complete confidentiality of all details relating to your
wedding party, including all preparatory steps. Under no circumstances shall Celeb
Weddings or its employees divulge any such information to any outsider.

Clause 7: Payment of 20 percent of the agreed price shall be made upon signing of this contract,
and the balance 80 percent upon presentation of the bill at the end of the event.
When Ace visited the site 2 weeks before the wedding, he found the beach dirty and thronged
with members of the public. He spoke to a SUN staff and discovered that, based on the terms of
SUN’s tie-up with Celeb:
• SUN allowed members of the public on its stretch of the beach unless Celeb paid a fee to have it
closed for a private event.
• SUN’s permission was required each time a tent was to be erected for such events.
SUN’s staff said, “Celeb has not paid our fee to close the beach on 22 October 2023. Neither
have they sought our permission for a tent for any upcoming event. In fact, SUN’s policy is to
discourage events with tents as they block the beach views of our hotel rooms. Celeb should
check with us before promising their customers a tent.”
• Aside from the above, Celeb also needed a government permit to erect a tent on the beach and
the application approval process usually took about 10 to 11 weekdays.
Ace immediately demanded an explanation from Elle. Elle protested that getting SUN’s
permission to erect a tent should not be a problem. “We had an event with a tent there in
February this year! And we have a standing government permit to erect a tent that is valid for 6
months! Let me find it.” Elle rummaged around her office and found the government permit,
which turned out to have expired a month ago. Red-faced, Elle said, “I will apply for a permit
right away and emphasise I need approval urgently. You’ll have your tent, I have a good
business relationship with SUN. And you will get your private beach – Celeb will pay SUN’s fee.”
Ace replied, “You are not inspiring confidence in me. I cannot afford to let my high-profile
wedding be ruined by your incompetence. There is no shortage of wedding organisers that
want my business. I have a good mind to take my business elsewhere.”

Elle responded, “We may have overlooked this detail but we have been more than diligent in all
other areas. Our décor specialist and head chef have been closely liaising with you, right?”
Ace agreed reluctantly.

1. Lunar Weddings (“Lunar”), a rival event company with a tie-up with Sentosa MOON
Resort, has been trying to persuade Ace to make a last-minute switch to contract with them
instead. Lunar has assured Ace they can provide everything Ace requires at a cheaper price.
Advise Ace and Celeb on their respective contractual rights to terminate the contract.

2. Would your answer to Question 1 be different, and how would it differ, if Ace discovers
a week later that Celeb’s employee has made a deal with a local fan magazine to provide them
with the details and pictures of Ace’s wedding party and has so far divulged the décor theme
that Ace and Bea have chosen. Ace wishes to terminate his contract with Celeb on this basis
now.