Jack, Ace’s younger brother, was inspired by Ace’s upcoming nuptials. He decided to propose to
Jess, his girlfriend of 3 years, and he wanted it to be spectacular. He therefore set about making
the necessary bookings in advance.

On 1 September, Jack contracted with Sky Doodlers Ltd (“Sky”) to write his proposal of
marriage to Jess across the sky as they lazed on their favourite beach at the Blu Beach Resort
(“Blu”), where they first met. Clause 1 of the contract required Sky to write the precise words
“Will u marry me Jess?” across the sky. Clause 2 specified that this was to be done on Sunday
15 October at 3 pm over the Blu Beach Resort. Clause 3 required part payment of $3,000 to be
made upon confirmation of booking, with the balance $3,000 payable on Monday 16 October.
Jack duly paid the first $3,000. On the same day, he booked a room at Blu with check-in on
Saturday 14 October and check-out on Monday 16 October.

On 14 October, Jack and Jess arrived at Blu to check into their hotel room. They were enjoying
the beach facilities when Jack made an insensitive remark about Jess’s financial management
skills and laughed at her “girl math”. Jess became upset and defensive, and they got into a
heated quarrel which ended with Jess declaring “You’re such an unbearably pompous fellow,
Jack! I don’t know why we haven’t broken up ages ago!” With that, Jess ran off crying to the
ladies’ washroom.

Jack, on seeing his plans for a romantic proposal going seriously awry, quickly telephoned Sky to
cancel the contract. John, the owner of Sky, protested that Jack could not do that. He informed
Jack that Sky did not keep a fleet of planes in Singapore since their business took them all over
the world. So Sky had to charter an aircraft equipped with a smoke-emitting system in
Singapore, and fly one of their skilled pilots into Singapore to carry out the sky-writing for Jack.

This had already been done so the pilot could familiarise himself with the aircraft before the
sky-writing assignment that was to take place the next day. Jack argued, “Look, this is seriously
not the right time for my proposal, don’t you get it?!” John replied, “I’m sorry but we will carry
out our obligations and we expect you to do the same.” Jack retorted angrily, “Well, I’m
cancelling the contract whether you like it or not!”

After hanging up the telephone, Jack wondered if Jess had come out of the washroom. Unable
to find her, he called her mobile phone only to discover that she was in a taxi on her way home.
Jack quickly took a taxi to Jess’ home to coax her into coming back to Blu to continue their
weekend. Jess was finally placated and they returned to Blu that night.

On Sunday, Jack made sure to behave himself. He ushered Jess to the beach after a good lunch
so she would be sure to catch the proposal in the sky. Although placated, it was clear to Jack
that Jess still had misgivings about their relationship. At 3 pm sharp, Jess and Jack’s eyes were
drawn upward as an aeroplane flew across the sky belching out white smoke that spelt: “Will
you marry me Tess?”

Jack slapped his forehead in exasperation as Jess said enviously, “What a lucky girl Tess is.” He
then launched into a desperate explanation that it was a marriage proposal to Jess from him.