Meanwhile, Pete’s wife, Cate, was having problems with her own specialty café business,
Cate’s Cuppa (“CC”). CC has been receiving customer complaints and Cate discovered
that it was because of her barista’s poor performance. He had even lied about his
barista certification. Cate promptly fired him. Determined to salvage her café’s
reputation and propel it to the next level, she persuaded Bart, her cousin and a celebrity
barista at another café, to work for her. Bart was open to the idea because his current
boss had not given him a raise in 5 years despite Bart being instrumental in the success
of his boss’s café.

On 1 May, Bart signed an employment contract with CC which required him to
commence work at CC on 1 July. On the same day, Cate took to Instagram to publicise a
special one-week coffee connoisseur event at CC scheduled for the third week of July. In
that post, Cate announced that the celebrity barista, Bart, will be joining CC and will
helm the event showcasing his flair in coffee preparations using the finest imported
coffee beans. Cate’s post immediately attracted the attention of the Blue Peak gourmet
coffee bean company (“BP”). On 2 May, BP begun negotiations with Cate to sponsor 5
kilogrammes of Blue Peak coffee beans for the event. In return, Cate was to post a 5-
minute video featuring Bart in action roasting, grinding, making coffee with Blue Peak
coffee beans and serving delighted customers for each day of the event. In the videos,
Bart was to extol the qualities of the gourmet brand of coffee beans and thank BP for
their generous sponsorship, following BP’s prepared script. Initial promise

However, on 3 May, Cate received a call from Bart saying that he would not be able to
commence work at CC until 1 August unless she agreed to pay him an extra sum. Bart
explained that he had overlooked a term in his current employment contract that
required him to serve 3 months’ notice of resignation or to compensate his boss for
every month less notice by way of a month’s salary. Bart’s current boss had demanded
compensation of a month’s salary when Bart tendered his notice of resignation on 1
May 2023. Bart told Cate he could not afford to pay it; he was supporting his parents
and 15-year-old twin siblings on top of repaying his parents’ home loan ever since both
his parents were unexpectedly retrenched. Cate was dismayed but felt she could not
postpone the special coffee connoisseur event, especially since it had attracted a
potential sponsorship deal already! She reluctantly agreed that CC would reimburse the
compensation sum to Bart if he started work at CC on 1 July. New promise

Bart did not mention to Cate that his current boss had tried to stop him from leaving to
join CC by offering him a raise to match what CC would be paying him, and some
additional perks. Bart had confided in Pete at their usual lunch meeting. Pete told Bart,
“Look, I know Cate is depending on you to join her café. Don’t disappoint her and SUP
will give your brothers part-time jobs during their secondary school holidays so they can
earn some pocket money and keep out of trouble.” Bart thanked Pete gratefully.

Separately, Cate was approached by Ross for a favour. Ross was the owner of Ross’s
Roastery (“RR”), from which CC had been obtaining its regular monthly supply of
roasted coffee beans on payment on delivery terms. RR recently held a corporate event
at CC on 1 August. CC’s corporate event contract terms stated that the full cost of the 1
August event was due on 31 August, and that CC was entitled to charge RR a late
payment fee of 15% per annum. A week before 31 August, Ross requested that RR be
allowed to set-off the full cost of the 1 August event against the cost of RR roasted
coffee beans that was to be delivered in September to CC. Coincidentally, both sums
were the same amount. This was not permitted under the corporate event contract
terms. But Ross said: “I’m facing a temporary liquidity issue – as a businesswoman, you
should understand how it is. Help me out, will you?” Ross gave Cate his most charming
smile and added, “You wished for customer recommendations to boost CC’s business
and I have been recommending CC for corporate events to my business associates, you
know? And hey, RR will try to prioritise your future orders, if we can.”

Cate has always had a soft spot for Ross, and readily agreed. When she mentioned this
to Pete two days later, Pete accused her of being under Ross’s spell. “Are you attracted
to him?” Pete asked suspiciously. Vexed, Cate called Ross in front of Pete to tell him she
could not accommodate his request for a set-off after all. Ross was taken aback by
Cate’s abrupt change of mind. He wished he had not promised part-payment to his
Brazilian coffee bean supplier by 31 August, as making that payment would leave him
with no spare funds to pay for the 1 August corporate event by the same date. Ross did
not want to approach his wealthy father-in-law, Dave, for help.

Bart started work at CC on 1 July as agreed. However, Cate has refused to reimburse
Bart the sum he compensated his ex-boss when he reminded her after the coffee
connoisseur event. Cate chided Bart “I sympathise with your family situation but it’s
not fair what you did. How can you put your own cousin on the spot like that?”
Pete also told Bart he has changed his mind about SUP hiring Bart’s siblings part-
time in his cleaning business as “clients won’t like seeing children do the cleaning”.
