Cate is organising a party for her son’s sixth birthday and thinks it would be nice to engage
someone to entertain the children at the party. Cate surfs the internet and finds Bing’s website which lists many party packages but the one that catches Cate’s eye is Party Package Deluxe which costs $1,000 for a party of five up to twenty children. For that package, Bing will perform 30 minutes of comedy magic show, 10 minutes of puppet show, and finally 20 minutes of balloon twisting show with every child getting at least two balloon sculptures.

Bing’s website also states: Worry not! With 5 years of experience entertaining children, Bing knows the BEST way to keep them busy!

On reading this, Cate quickly telephones Bing. On the phone, Cate confirms with Bing what Party Package Deluxe provides and their conversation concludes with the two of them agreeing that Bing will provide Party Package Deluxe at Cate’s home at her proposed date and time with the $1,000 fee to be payable at the end of the performance, subject to their further agreement on Bing’s ‘usual terms and conditions’.

Bing efficiently follows up the telephone conversation with a WhatsApp message to Cate saying: “Hello Cate! To recap what we agreed just now, I will provide Party Package Deluxe at your home from 11 am on 1 September with the $1,000 fee payable at the end of the performance. Please see the attached for my usual terms and conditions and let me know if you have any further queries or objections. If I don’t hear from you by 9 pm tomorrow, I will assume that you have agreed to them.”

A few minutes after sending the message, Bing notices that two blue ticks appeared next to it, indicating that it has been received and read by Cate. However, although Cate has read Bing’s message, she does not open Bing’s attachment, nor does she bother to respond. She is too busy with running Cate’s Cuppa on top of planning her son’s birthday party. Had she opened the attachment, she would have seen the following term:

Clause X: In accordance with Bing’s usual practice, if he finds that the children at the party
are too badly behaved, he is permitted to end his performance engagement immediately.
In such a case, the Customer shall not be entitled to any reduction in the agreed fee.

On 1 September, at close to 11 am, Cate’s “little” guests arrive, as does Bing in his clown suit, whom Cate welcomes as he can keep the little guests entertained while she attends to other party arrangements. Pete is away at work and is not there to help Cate with his son’s party. All the children (including Cate’s son) crowd around Bing with excitement. When Bing was twenty minutes into his magic comedy show routine, Cate’s son starts to pull at Bing’s costume causing Bing to trip and fall. Bing exclaims loudly as he falls and his dentures drop out onto the floor. The children laughed uproariously thinking this is part of the act. A child picks up the dentures and runs around the room with them until Bing manages to corner him. As Bing turns around, he notices that a group of children has emptied the contents of his bag onto the floor. This is the last straw for Bing, who says to Cate, “I have never been to an event where the children are as badly behaved as this. I am leaving now.” Cate protests but Bing tells her, “The children are abominable. The terms you agreed to allow me to end my engagement early!” He packs up and leaves after reminding Cate that she owes him $1,000.

Cate and the children are dismayed. But just then, a lightning bolt shoots out from the sky and hits a tree standing at the far edge of the park across from Cate’s house. There is a loud
explosion, and the tree catches fire. Cate quickly calls the fire brigade which soon arrives and extinguishes the fire. The children have a great time viewing everything from the safety of Cate’s sheltered rooftop while enjoying snacks and drinks! All have forgotten about Bing,
except Cate who receives a WhatsApp message from Bing with a QR code for payment via
PayNow.
