Maven Technologies (MT) is a newly-minted Singapore-based tech unicorn whose pri-
mary product is a virtual reality headset known as the MaveGear. As described on Maven’s

website, the MaveGear is a “truly revolutionary advance in VR tech that delivers true-to-
life, hyper-realistic, fully-immersive experiences”. Its in-built speakers allow people to

talk to one another online as if they were meeting in person. Maven’s proprietary “neural
link” technology allows some physical touch to be simulated. Users can therefore feel
‘pain’, but this is highly limited and never actually dangerous to the body.
Priced at $1,500, each MaveGear is worn much like a motorcyclist’s helmet. On startup,
it always displays a standard warning that the MaveGear should “only be used in physical
spaces with enough clearance for safe mobility”, and that “some MaveGear apps may
contain disturbing images and/or light patterns or flashing lights that may trigger epileptic
seizures”.
The MaveGear has taken Singapore by storm. It is wildly popular amongst youths aged
29 and under, who have been using it to play a variety of first-person shooter, open-world,
role-playing, adventure, and other VR games. Many also use it simply to meet friends
and chat. The MaveGear experience is so authentic that users sometimes lose track of
real-world time.
Recently, taking seriously the Silicon Valley lore that “those who are serious about their
hardware should make their own software”, Maven unveiled a new killer app for the
MaveGear known as the Maven Creator Universe (MCU). The MCU is both a VR world

in itself as well as an app store. In itself, the MCU is already a vast, explorable land-
scape. Third-party developers (“creators”) can further build and host their own virtual

spaces. This is, and can only be, done using Maverick, an open-source code framework
developed, maintained, and documented by Maven.
After the MCU’s release, swathes of small-time and established VR developers descend

on the platform. They create scores of wondrous MCU spaces styled after alternate galax-
ies, magical worlds, and medieval castles alike. One such developer YuriTech, a small

game development company with only 5 employees. Working round the clock, they scrap
together a new game they call “Among Them”. On release day, a quaint countryside village appears on the MCU landscape. It is surrounded by ten metre tall, opaque brick
walls. The only entrance to (and exit from) the village is a set of massive steel gates at
the village’s southernmost tip. By day, the village is bustling with activity. Scores of
computer-controlled non-playable characters (NPCs) hawk exotic wares, delicious foods,
carnival games, etc. This festive sight attracts numerous passer-by MCU users to enter and
explore the village.

As soon as the MCU World Clock strikes 7p.m., the steel gates swing shut. The previously-
friendly NPCs spontaneously transform into all sorts of nightly horrors — zombies, were-
wolves, giants, beasts, vampires. Time in the village stops momentarily while a voice in

the sky announces that everyone there has become “players in a next-generation VR game,
brought to you by YuriTech”. They are asked to choose from a variety of guns, swords,
climbing gear, etc, and told that “the only way out is to fight and survive till the sun rises,
or die trying”. Everyone is taken aback, but many experienced gamers take to it quickly.
They go on to have the most fun they’ve ever had in years.
Eli, 23, is not so lucky. Since young, he had been terrified of the dark. He had carefully
avoided all horror movies and games. Just hearing YuriTech’s announcement had put him
in a state of severe shock. Now finding himself suddenly amongst monsters, all Eli could
do was hide in a corner of the village crying to himself. Through the night, he (his VR
character) is repeatedly attacked and hurt by monsters. He is very, very distressed. It was
not until the dawn the next (virtual) day that his real world university friend Nadia, who
had racked up the second highest score that night, discovers him sobbing in a corner. She
drags him out of there and screams, “ELI, JUST LOG OUT!”
A surge of clarity takes over Eli. He does so. But it is too late. He had been stuck in
the MCU for 8 real world hours. Haunted by images of the night, he develops a serious,
recognized psychiatric injury within a week.
