Survinder has just left his law practice after a 6 year stint there. He had been with the
firm, Soo & Drexel LLP, since he was a trainee. Unfortunately he was recently told he
would not make partner. Dejected but determined, he asks that his current boss Amelia
(an equity partner) write a reference letter for him to use for securing a job at another
law firm, Second Chance LLP. In the interests of objectivity, Second Chance had asked
Survinder to direct Amelia to send them this letter directly and without going through
him.
Unknown to Survinder, Amelia had always found Survinder’s work unacceptable and had
only kept him because she could not find someone better. Worried Survinder would leave,
she had always given him positive comments on his work. But her letter details Survinder’s
many failings at the firm. It reads:

Survinder has worked for me for 6 years in the corporate law department. He
joined us as a trainee 6 years ago. I have been his direct supervisor since.
It is not clear how Survinder got into law school in the first place, and even

more of a mystery as to how he managed to secure qualifying honours. De-
spite my constant encouragement and guidance, Survinder just does not seem

to ‘get’ what law practice requires. Tenacity, diligence, wit, creativity, re-
silience – all these traits seem to have skipped his generation. I have kept him

for 6 years in the hope that he would eventually see the light. But I recently
saw the light that he would not (and managed to hire someone else).
I will also note one specific example. We acted for a bank recently on a tax

advisory matter. The client simply wanted us to advise on how best to opti-
mise their tax liability for their proposed acquisition of an asset. The answer

to me was straightforward. A Cayman Islands’ trust and a British Virgin Is-
lands subsidiary would have done the job. You know, the usual. We’ve done

hundreds of these for our clients. But Survinder took three weeks of research
and even then concluded that we could not help the client on that matter.
All in all I would still recommend Survinder to you. It would be like hiring
a second-year associate, only marginally better. These are rare in the current
job market.

Unknown to Amelia, Second Chance LLP was run by Kushvinder: a top litigator who also
happened to be Survinder’s uncle. Kushvinder reads the letter and gets a rude shock. He
confronts Survinder about this. Survinder argues that Amelia’s charges were entirely false.
He had always worked extremely hard at Soo & Drexel; it was Amelia herself who never
noticed how hard he had been working because she always left the office at 6pm for drinks.
He had taken some time on the bank matter because the law recently changed to make
Amelia’s proposed structure totally unworkable. After hearing Survinder’s explanation,
Kushvinder agreed that the structure was unworkable.
Survinder now suspects that he had lost many prior job opportunities he had applied for
because of Amelia’s recommendation letter. The uncle-nephew duo now want to sue her.
Following the sacred wisdom that “a lawyer who represents themselves has a fool for a
client”, they approach you for advice instead. Advise them.
