TokoMart (TM) is an up-and-coming e-commerce platform whose stated mission is to
“make it incredibly easy for anyone to establish an online commercial presence by au-
tomating everything from marketing to pricing and delivery”. Since its launch in 2021,
it has steadily gained users in Singapore and around the world. Today around 80,000
Singapore users frequently sell things on TM and 200,000 frequently buy.
TM succeeded because of a software TM markets as “AutoMart: the easiest, safest way to
sell anything, anywhere”. All users need to do is upload pictures of products they want to
sell, and AutoMart takes care of the rest, automatically generating an online “Shopfront”
for the user. Under the hood, AutoMart comprises a mix of proprietary and third-party
modules. First, an open-source image recognition software identifies the product pictured
in each image. Next, another software module replaces the image’s original background
with a Midjourney generated one created from the prompt “create a beautiful, high-res
product backdrop for [insert product name here]”.
Third, marketing text is generated by prompting ChatGPT to “create interesting, mar-
ketable text for [insert product name here]”. Midjourney and ChatGPT are both created
and maintained by third-party companies based outside Singapore. Finally, AutoMart
scrapes the Web for listings of comparable products and computes possible prices by tak-
ing the 60% percentile of all prices found. That is, all products are priced to be more
expensive than 60% of the others, but cheaper than the remaining 40%. The generated
product name, image, marketing, and price are then used to auto-fill website templates on
the user’s Shopfront. All of this is supported by standard third-party payment services
such as Paylah and Paypal, though sellers are expected to handle deliveries or pickups
themselves.
Teresa is a rising fourth year business student. Her parents Chang and Howie (C&H) own
one of Singapore’s largest confectioneries. As their daughter was graduating soon, C&H
decided to give Teresa a “small startup fund” of S$250,000 to seed her future career. This
was on the condition that she would have to pay it all back if, but only if, she made profits.
Teresa developed some streetsmarts watching her parents run the family business but had
never run her own shop before. Sensing a seasonal opportunity, Teresa sank the entire sum
into importing mooncakes from Malaysia. Mooncakes are pastries typically consumed
around the Chinese mid-autumn festival. Prices in Singapore have been steadily rising
due to strong demand and hype, reaching an average of $10 per piece. Given her family
connections, however, Teresa was able to procure them for $1 each.
Hoping to show her ability to “strike it out all on her own”, Teresa decided to peddle
her wares entirely online. This especially as her parents were “too old-fashioned to sell
online even though their company had a website”. On 1 September 2023, she uploaded
pictures of her products on TM. AutoMart created her Shopfront automatically, complete
with a flattering description of her mooncakes as “delectable seasonal sensations” and
studio-quality images painting them in a mouth-watering light. Unknown to all parties,
however, one of TM’s engineers had carelessly updated 60% in the pricing algorithm to
80%. Teresa’s mooncakes ended up being priced at $12 instead of $10. Nonetheless, due
to strong marketing, Teresa cleared more than 20% of her total stock within the first sales
day.
This caught the attention of Cyril, Teresa’s schoolmate and rival (after she, in his view,
failed to pull her weight in a year one group project). Cyril knew Teresa’s background and
realised that the mooncakes she had were very similar to those her parents were selling
in their physical stores, but at only $10 each. Further, Teresa’s product description and
images were also nearly identical to those on C&H’s website. Cyril calculated that all
he needed to sabotage Teresa was to spill this information. On 3 September, he took to
several forums and social media platforms to post this message: “SCAM ALARM! Teresa,
daughter of the famous C&H confectionery, is misleading the public by selling C&H’s
mooncakes online, but at a 20% premium! Don’t even know if its safe. BOYCOTT.”
The message went viral immediately. By 4 September, Teresa’s business had crashed.
Almost no orders came in. Sales never recovered. Teresa ended up making a net loss
of $200,000. Thankfully, the main family business was unaffected. Still, Teresa’s par-
ents witnessed Teresa’s commercial disaster and were totally embarrassed by the incident.
They blamed themselves for “giving Teresa too much responsibility despite her tender
young age”. They both develop recognised psychiatric injuries.
