Copacabana is the hottest beach club in Sentosa. Music and passion are always the
fashion, as hundreds of trendy revellers party from 8pm until 4am throughout the week.
Flavia signed a contract with the club to be its “DJ in residence” for six months. She must
work 15 hours per week, including at least one whole night on a Friday or Saturday. For
this Flavia receives a flat fee, divided into weekly instalments, plus a bonus based upon
attendance. The club is entitled to terminate the contract if attendance falls below a certain
figure for two weeks in a row. The club provides the sound system. Flavia brings her own
discs and is free to set the playlist, so long as it remains predominantly on the Latin
American theme of merengue and cha-cha.
Rico and Carlos go to the club one night. Carlos is only 17 years old; he gains admission
by using a fake ID. Under the liquor licensing regulations, a person under the age of 18
commits an offence by buying or consuming alcohol. The offence attracts a fine of up to
$5,000 and imprisonment not exceeding 3 months. Rico and Carlos soon make nuisances
of themselves, showing off their diamond bling and approaching every woman in the
vicinity. They then go to the bar to order cocktails from Tony, the bartender employed by
the club. Tony carelessly splashes a large quantity of spirits into both drinks. Carlos soon
begins to feel unwell and goes to the bathroom. While he is lying on the bathroom floor,
sick and dizzy, another clubgoer accidentally steps on his hand, breaking a finger. That
same clubgoer then steals his wallet.
Rico continues to party. Across the crowded floor he spots Lola, one of the dancers
employed by the club. He calls her over when she finishes dancing. Unknown to Rico,
Lola is dating Tony. Rico goes a bit too far with Lola and Tony signals frantically to the
club’s security officer to intervene. The security officer comes to Lola’s assistance and
separates the pair. Tony then decides to teach Rico a lesson for harassing Lola, and
spikes Rico’s cocktail with a hallucinogenic drug. Rico becomes delirious, trips and hits
his head against the bar counter. He suffers a serious head injury.
As Flavia prepares her next set of dance tracks, Lola clambers onto a special dancing
podium next to the main speakers. Flavia fiddles with the volume controls, causing a
deafening blast of bass right into Lola’s eardrum. Lola, who already had hearing damage
due to a long career dancing in clubs, develops chronic tinnitus (ringing or buzzing in the
ears). You may assume that: (1) Flavia was
negligent in her volume control and (2) Tony was negligent in adding too much alcohol to
the drinks.
