Robert Lim was suffering from a very rare condition which had caused a nodule to grow at the base of his neck. He went to the Singapore National Hospital, where he was advised by Dr Abdul Aziz that if the nodule was not removed it would continue to grow, and would eventually reach such a size that it would threaten his life. Dr Aziz advised Robert that the procedure to remove the nodule would be a very delicate one, and that the only specialist in Singapore who was qualified to perform it was Dr Megan Nathan. Dr Nathan was in private practice, but on several prior occasions had performed surgery of this type as a consultant at the Singapore National Hospital. Robert agreed that Dr Nathan should carry out the surgery at the hospital.

During the consultation at which Robert met Dr Nathan and signed the form consenting to the removal of the nodule, Dr Nathan explained the nature of the surgery and outlined a number of possible risks and side-effects. However, she omitted to tell Robert that there was a 0.1% chance that, even if the surgery to remove the nodule was successful, he could suffer from permanent paralysis and be in extreme discomfort for the rest of his life. Unfortunately, although Dr Nathan performed the procedure competently, this risk eventuated. The majority of doctors in Singapore would not have wished to disclose a risk which was statistically so small, but most patients would have wished to be informed of a risk with such potentially severe consequences. Robert subsequently acknowledged that, even if he had known of the risk, he would have asked Dr Nathan to perform the procedure at some point, but that he would have deferred it until the nodule had further increased in size.

While Dr Nathan was performing the procedure to remove the nodule, she noticed that Robert had another and different type of growth behind his right ear. This she correctly diagnosed as suggesting the presence of a small brain tumour, which if not removed would also eventually prove life-threatening. Since Robert was already under general anaesthetic, Dr Nathan took the opportunity to excise the tumour, even though this was not her particular area of expertise. When Robert awoke from the anaesthetic and Dr Nathan told him that she had carried out this additional procedure, he was furious. He said that had he been aware of the tumour's presence he would not have consented to it being removed by Dr Nathan, but would instead have chosen to have the procedure performed by a brain surgeon.

Robert now wishes to sue Dr Nathan for her failure to warn him of the risk associated with the procedure to remove the nodule, and for carrying out the procedure to remove the tumour. In addition, he wishes to know whether the Singapore National Hospital can also be held accountable for Dr Nathan's conduct. 
